Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
1 
‘Getting out of the closet’: Scientific authorship of literary 
fiction and knowledge transfer 
Joaquín M. Azagra-Caro1 · Anabel Fernández-Mesa2 · Nicolás Robinson-García1* 
Abstract Some scientists write literary fiction books in their spare time. If these books contain scientific 
knowledge, literary fiction becomes a mechanism of knowledge transfer. In this case, we could conceptualize 
literary fiction as non-formal knowledge transfer. We model knowledge transfer via literary fiction as a function 
of the type of scientist (academic or non -academic) and his/her scientific field . Academic scientists are those 
employed in academia and public research organizations whereas non -academic sc ientists are those with a 
scientific background employed in other sectors. We also distinguish between direct knowledge transfer (the 
book includes the scientist’s research topics), indirect knowledge transfer (scientific authors talk about their 
research with cultural agents) and reverse knowledge transfer (cultural agents give scientists ideas for future 
research). Through mixed-methods research and a sample from Spain, we find that scientific authorship accounts 
for a considerable percentage of all liter ary fiction authorship. Academic scientists do not transfer knowledge 
directly so often as non -academic scientists, but the former engage into indirect and reverse transfer knowledge 
more often than the latter. Scientists from History stand out in direct k nowledge transfer. We draw propositions 
about the role of the academic logic and scientific field on knowledge transfer  via literary fiction . We advance 
some tentative conclusions regarding the consideration of scientific authorship of literary fiction as a valuable 
knowledge transfer mechanism. 
Keywords Creative class • Non-formal technology transfer channels • Institutional logics • Scientific writers  
JEL codes O33 • O34 • Z11 
  
                                                           
*  Joaquín  M. Azagra-Caro, jazagra@ingenio.upv.es 
1 INGENIO (CSIC-UPV), Universitat Politècnica de València, Camino de Vera s/n, E-46022 Valencia, Spain 
2 University of Valencia, Valencia (Spain) 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
2 
1 Introduction 
Academic scientists, understood as members of the teaching and/or research staff of a public university or a 
public research organization (including scholars from the Humanities and Social Sciences), benefit the academic 
community, industry and other socia l collectives through teaching , research and knowledge transfer  (Olmos-
Peñuela et al. 2014) . Typical knowledge transfer mechanisms include patent licensing, spinoffs, joint projects, 
research contracts, consulting, informal meetings, etc. (Bercovitz and Feldman 2006; Link et al. 2007; Bradley et 
al. 2013). Other mechanisms have not deserved so much attention,  maybe because they are related to unusual 
academic activities: participation in fora like diplomatic circles (Fähnrich 2015), political parties (Parke r 2015) 
or engag ement with cultural audiences (Benneworth 2014). We address this last aspect, namely sociocultural 
contributions of academics, given the many voices advocating for its relevance. T he role of universities as 
anchor institutions (Ehlenz 2015), and of scientists as part of a creative class , is important for the sociocultural 
life of cities (Florida 2005) , and for the inclusion of the sociocultural benefits of research in  the evaluation of its 
impact (Goddard 2009). In this paper, we will focus on the conceptualization of one sociocultural contribution of 
academics as a knowledge transfer mechanism : writing literary fiction.  There are many examples of scientists 
that have written literary fiction . Eminent cases are Nobel Prize Winners like José E chegaray (1904, Technical 
University of Madrid ), Toni Morrison  (1993, Texas Southern University and Howard University ), and John 
Maxwell Coetzee (2003, State University of New York  and University of Chicago ). Some extremely popular 
authors are also academics, like J.R.R. Tolkien (Oxford University) and Umberto Eco (University of Bologna).1 
Of course, academic scientists’ literary work may not relate to their research. When there is a relation, literary 
fiction becomes a dissemination channel and, as such, opens an array of  policy tools to increase the transfer of 
                                                           
1 Notice the use of the word ‘scientists’ instead or ‘researchers’ or other related terms along the paper. In several academic and non-academic 
fora, we checked that the definition of both terms overlaps. Some experts consider that researchers can be scientists (scientific researchers) or 
not (researchers that do not follow the scientific method). Some others consider that scientists can be researchers (professional scientists) or 
not (anyone who follows a systematic wa y to increase understanding). Dictionaries are not much helpful, either. For instance, according to 
the Cambridge Dictionary, a researcher is someone engaged into the ‘study of a subject in order to discover new information’;  a scientist is 
‘someone who studies science or works in science’, being science ‘knowledge gained by observation and experiment’. We do not appreciate 
strong differences between the two terms, but we prefer ‘scientist’ because of its connotations (‘passionate with what he/she does’, 
‘motivated for the sake of knowledge’), which are slightly more positive than those of ‘researcher’. Despite claims that Arts and Humanities 
are not science, we include scholars in these disciplines among scientists (we also considered the term ‘scholar’, bu t its definition according 
to the Cambridge Dictionary is ‘a person of great knowledge and learning’, which does not provide clearer cut points either). 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
3 
knowledge and promote public understanding of science.  And even when this fiction  is not related to their 
research, it can still become a mechanism to interact with non -academic stakeholders. By analyzing knowledge 
transfer via literary fiction, we call attention to problems like employee burnout because of lack of institutional 
support to creativity in scientific organizations; brain drain of individuals with useful writing skills wh o leave 
academia once their literary work becomes successful; or valorization of research activities , especially in fields 
like Humanities, that are constantly struggling for legitimacy. 
 The objectives of this paper are : (1)  to place scientific authorship of literary fiction among existing 
taxonomies of knowledge transfer mechanisms , (2) to s how the prevalence of scientific authorship of literary 
fiction, and (3) to analyze the relation between scientific authorship of literary fiction and knowledge transfer2. 
So far, we ponder knowledge transfer as to whether scientific fields of scientists are aligned with the contents 
of their fiction books. This refers to direct knowledge transfer. Our first research question is , ‘do scientists use 
their literary works as mechanisms of direct knowledge transfer ?’ But this is not the only possible type of 
knowledge transfer. A scientist that publishes a fiction book enters into new cultural circles of editors, other 
writers, readers, etc. Consequently, scientists may spread their specialized knowledge in talks, presentations and 
other meetings. Regardless of the book contents and of whether it transfers scientific knowledge, its author 
would have more chances to let the public know abou t his/her research. We will call this indirect knowledge 
transfer and respond a second research question : do literary wo rks give scientists the opportunity to transfer 
knowledge indirectly? In addition, we also consider that feedbacks may take place during the process of selling a 
book, including interactions from knowledge transfer to knowledge generation. The scientist, via contacts with 
the same cultural circles aforementioned, may benefit from the publishing experience thr ough enriched life 
experiences, and thus get ideas to incorporate in his/her later research, which we call reverse knowledge transfer. 
This leads us to a third research  question: do scientists experience flows from knowledge transfer to knowledge 
generation during the promotion of their literary work? 
The paper continues with a conceptual section where we discuss the properties of literary fiction vis -à-vis 
other mechanisms of knowledge transfer, and we develop an initial framework for the analysis  of the relation 
between scientific authorship of literary fiction and knowledge transfer . Then we analyze qualitative and 
quantitative evidences from two Spanish regions under this analytical framework . We discuss our finding and 
suggest propositions. Finally, we present our main conclusions. 
                                                           
2 We consider literary fiction as the narrative forms of literature, i.e. novels, short stories, plays; thus leaving aside poetry or literary essay. 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
4 
2 Literature review and conceptual approach 
2.1 Scientific authorship of literary fiction and the distinction of formal versus informal 
knowledge transfer 
Knowledge transfer is defined as the dissemination of professional knowledge from one person to another 
(OECD, 2000: 76). Based on such definition, we could assume, at least for this sub -section only, that all 
scientific authorship of literary fiction is a vessel of academic knowledge transfer. One way to discuss the 
characteristics of such mechanism  is to place it within existing taxonomies of knowledge transfer channels. 
Because the property of literary fiction books is typically licensed to publishing companies, a taxonomy placing 
importance on intellectual property rights (IPRs) seems an appropriate departure point. Link et al. (2007) provide 
such IPR -centric taxonomy. They distinguish between formal and informal knowledge transfer  mechanisms: 
formal refers to mechanisms that ‘embody or directly result in a  legal instrumentality such as, for example, 
patent, license or royalty agreement ’ (p. 642) and informal refers to mechanisms that foster ‘the flow of 
technology knowledge but through informal communication processes, such as techni cal assistance, consulting 
and collaborative research’ (p. 642). The later definition is a bit tautological, so Bradley et al. (2013) add that 
‘informal technology transfer is more abstract than formal technology transfer in that it involves the exchange o f 
ideas and knowledge rather than the property of a specific invention’ (p. 50) . They also make a clear distinction 
between formal and informal knowledge transfer based on the disclosure or not of the scientific breakthrough to 
the university’s technology transfer office (TTO). Bradley et al. (2013) also distinguish a third group of informal 
technology transfer channels, so-called ‘academic-industry collaborations’, which imply a sustained partnership 
over time, a ‘working relationship’ (p. 61) that may incorporate both formal and informal mechani sms, such as 
consulting, research contracts and  joint labs.  The co nceptual boundaries between academic -industry 
collaborations and formal or informal knowledge transfer are not sharp yet, but this should have no effect on  the 
inclusion of literary fiction in this framework, as we will now see. 
Table 1  summarizes the above information  and places scientific authorship of literary fiction among the 
different knowledge transfer channels. Writing literary fiction could be defined as formal knowledge transfer 
because it generates copyrights, a form of IPR. However, it does not pose the question whether to  disclose it to 
the TTO or not, which qualifies it as informal knowledge transfer. Hence, scientific authorship of literary fiction 
does not fit perfectly into either formal or informal knowledge transfer . It could be then considered to form part 
of the group of ‘academic -industry collaborations’ , as it combines elements of both. Nevertheless, we do not 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
5 
appreciate necessary signs of enduring partnerships between authors and editors that wou ld support such 
classification. 
Table 1 Knowledge transfer types according to the formali zation of their basic contents , including non -formal 
knowledge transfer 
Knowledge transfer 
type 
Basic contents Related mechanisms Period of time  
Formal knowledge 
transfer 
Allocation of property rights, 
disclosure to TTO 
Patents, licensing, spinoffs Working time 
Informal knowledge 
transfer 
Communication processes, no 
disclosure to TTO, exchange of 
ideas 
Talks and meetings, joint 
publications, technical 
assistance, free dissemination 
Working time 
Academic-industry 
collaborations 
Sustained working relationship Consulting, research contracts, 
joint labs 
Working time 
Non-formal 
knowledge transfer 
Allocation of property rights, no 
disclosure to TTO 
Non-academic books, 
copyrights, licensing 
Spare time 
Source: (first three rows) own elaboration from Link et al. (2007) and Bradley et al. (2013) 
We believe that the way to introduce scientific authorship of literary fiction is to consider it as a separate 
group. We propose the label of ‘non-formal knowledge transfer’ to refer to it. Non -formal knowledge transfer 
would be defined as the disseminatio n of professional knowledge embedded in planned activities that are not 
explicitly designated as a transfer mechanism, but which contain an important element of transfer3. The key to 
differentiate non -formal knowledge transfer from other knowledge transfer categories is to consider it as an 
activity for the spare time, whereas the rest are conducted during office hours. As a non -formal mechanism, 
scientific authorship of l iterary fiction involves management of IPRs ( authors’ license copyrights to publishing 
houses) but not the decision to disclose a result to the TTO as it lies beyond the control of the scientist’s 
organization (it actually lies in the individual’s private sphere). 
2.2 Modeling the relationship between scientific authorship of literary fiction and knowledge 
transfer 
Once having conceptualised scientific authorship of literary fiction as a non -formal knowledge transfer 
mechanism, we can dismiss now the assumption  that all literary fiction involves scientific knowledge transfer. 
                                                           
3 In the field of Educational Sciences, the distinction between formal, informal and non -formal learning or education is common ( Colardyn 
and Bjornavold 2004). It has been our source of inspiration to propose the term and definition of ‘non-formal knowledge transfer’. 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
6 
Hence, we can speculate on its links with actual knowledge transfer. Fig. 1 tries to visualise the relations we aim 
to explore in this first approach. The following sub-sections tackle each one of these relations. 
 
Fig. 1 Conceptual framework of knowledge transfer via literary fiction 
2.2.1 Modeling scientific authorship of literary fiction 
Scientific production and university -society knowledge transfer depend on individual characteristics of 
researchers and other factors, e.g. age, gender, organization, scientific field, region, country, etc. ( Carayol and 
Matt 2006; Baccini et al. 2014; Perk mann et al. 2013 ). Similarly, production of literary fiction depends on 
individual characteristics of the author and characteristics of the books and publishing companies , e.g.  age, 
gender, genre, price, company type, etc. (Cr ozier 1999; Shehu et al . 2014; Thelwall 2017). At the interface of 
scientific activities and literary fiction production, we expect scientific authorship of literary  fiction to be 
dependent on similar influences. More concretely, we may expect that these forces drive differences between 
scientific and non-scientific authors. In other words,  scientific authors may represent a selected sample from the 
population of all authors, i.e. they may publish in distinct companies, dissimilar kind of books or simply have 
other personal charac teristics. Hence, to analyze the contribution of scientists to knowledge transfer via literary 
fiction, we have to take into account scientific authorship of literary fiction as a previous step to the analysis of 
knowledge transfer via literary fiction. Ou r proposal is to identify the probability that an edited book of literary 
fiction is authored by a scientist: 
 SALFijkl = f(Xijkl) (1) 
Field of 
science 
Knowledge transfer 
through literary fiction 
Authorship of literary 
fiction 
Non-scientific 
Scientific 
Academic 
logic 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
7 
Here, SALF is the probability that book i by author j, edition k, published by company l, has a scientific 
author. X is a  vector of control characteristics, like book genre, geographic origin of the writer, company size, 
etc. 
2.2.2 Modeling direct knowledge transfer via literary fiction 
As mentioned in the introduction, we can differentiate three types of knowledge transfer: direc t, indirect and 
reverse. This sub -section focuses on  direct knowledge transfer ( dissemination of scientific knowledge through 
the contents of the book) and the relationships with some of its driving forces. We propose the following model: 
 KTij = f(Aj, Fj) (2) 
Where KT is the degree of knowledge transfer contained in a literary fiction work i by author j, A 
differentiates academic from non -academic scientists and F is a vector of the fields on which the scientists 
conduct research.  We will deal with both as pects in more detail in the following sub -sections. We will recall 
indirect and reverse knowledge transfer, and further conceptualize the difference with direct knowledge transfer , 
in section 2.2.3. 
2.2.2.A Direct knowledge transfer via literary fiction according to the type of scientist (academic or non -
academic) 
So far, we have dealt with academic scientists because of the relevance of their presence in the creative class  
of cities and the potential of literary fiction to transfer scientific knowledge. However, when we focus on this last 
aspect (knowledge transfer), we may think that it is not exclusive of academic scientists. Non -academic scientists 
can also transfer know ledge through their fiction books. We define  academic scientists as research staff 
employed by universities and public research organizations (also known as government labs , e.g. the French 
CNRS, the Italian CNR, the Spanish CSIC, the German Max Planck Soc iety, etc.). Non -academic scientists are 
defined as those employed by other organizations  (e.g. industrial or hospital scientists), or who conduct research 
outside organizations (e.g. laypeople, citizen or independent scientists). Academic scientists have to compete 
with non-academic scientists, maybe in inferior conditions, in a similar vein to that of academic entrepreneurs 
who compete with non -academic entrepreneurs (Ayoub et al. 2016) . We know that engagement in knowledge 
transfer activities may not give as much prestige as a research focus, and raise critical concerns for negative 
unintended consequences (Azagra-Caro et al. 2008; Perkmann et al. 2011). Similarly, academic scientists may be 
in inferior conditions than non-academic ones because  under an academic logic, scientific authorship of literary 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
8 
fiction is not valued in the evaluation of merits , and peers may interpret knowledge transfer through literary 
fiction as frivolous . Writing fiction can even decrease academic sci entists’ reputation among scientific peers 
given that for these, the  most valuable merit is publication in top journals (they may consider writing literary 
fiction as a waste of time, as suggested by some of our interviewees ). On the contrary, under a non -academic 
logic, a literary fiction book may be an accepted form for scientists to disseminate expert knowledge and third 
parties may regard it as a complementary asset, given that third parties are not necessarily academics but societ al 
actors who attach importance to literary fiction (most part of society does not read scientific articles). This would 
be apparent in the need for academic scientists to confine authorship of literary fiction to their spare time, 
whereas for non-academic scientists it may be part of their profession.  
 
2.2.2.B Direct knowledge transfer via literary fiction according to scientific fields: a knowledge transfer 
mechanism for the Social Sciences and Humanities? 
Knowledge transfer activities have different levels of intensity and use different mechanisms across scientific 
fields. Landry et al. (2006) found that Engineering fo llowed by Earth Sciences were the areas with higher 
evidences of knowledge transfer , as opposed to Computer Science and Physics, Mathematics and Space 
Sciences. They also highlighted how commercialization does not always take place in these processes. Resu lts 
are consistent with those reported by D’Este and Patel (2007).  Such typical studies do not consider Social 
Sciences and Humanities  in their analysis, implying that these fields have little capability of transferring 
knowledge to society. An other example of such is the study by Tijssen (2006 ), which does not include any of 
these fields among what he calls ‘research areas of significant industrial interest’.  
However, recently , some studies have suggested that scientists  in Social Sciences and Humanities  simply 
employ other knowledge transfer mechanisms. Examples of such studies are those by Cassity and Ang (2006) or 
by Olmos -Peñuela et al . (2014). Strikingly, this latter study reported level s of relational knowledge transfer 
activities in Social Sciences  and Humanities similar to those reported in Engineering and the Natural and 
Physical Sciences, through mechanisms like consultancy or contract research. 
Molas-Gallart and Tang (2011) found that researchers from the fields of the Social Sciences use indirect 
mechanisms of communication –that is, through text – as a means to interact with non -academic stakeholders. 
And indeed, it is a means with the potential to lead to further direct interactions. This is intimately related with 
the purpose and forms of communication followed in Social Sciences and Humanities  where there is no strict 
line between what is directed to the scholarly community and what is directe d to the public. Here it is important 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
9 
to mention the audience framework developed by Nederhof (2006), where he considers that researchers in these 
fields may publish their research results in different forms depending on their target audience. He distingui shes 
three potential audiences: other scientists, non -scholar experts and the gener al audience. In this regard, the 
distinction between what is research output, what is intended to communicate and disseminate science among lay 
citizens and what is clearly targeted towards transfer knowledge becomes blurred. 
In this sense, we might expect a higher degree of knowledge transfer via literary fiction in fields such as 
Social Sciences and Humanities than suggested by other mechanisms, and higher than in other scientific fields. 
2.2.3 Indirect and reverse knowledge transfer 
The discussion up to now has been mainly about direct knowledge transfer  (DKT), which evokes the 
embodiment of scientific knowledge on a mechanism (the book in this case) that mediates between the scientist 
and the recipient. We can distinguish it from other forms of knowledge transfer, according to the codification 
and direction of the knowledge flow. DKT would be codified in the form of the book and directed from the 
scientist to the reader. 
Contributions of universities to their surroundings can be also more indirect (Smith and Bagchi -Sen 2012). In 
the process of diffusion of a book, a scientist may have other opportunities to transfer knowledge, namely by 
word-of-mouth with editors, other writers , attendants to presentations and meetings, and the readers, i.e. the 
cultural world. We call this indirect knowledge transfer  (IKT), which is characterized by the presence of tacit 
knowledge and still directed from the scientist to the cultural world. 
Table 2 Knowledge transfer types via literary fiction according to the codification and direction of related 
knowledge 
Knowledge transfer 
type 
Basic contents Knowledge 
type 
Direction of the 
knowledge 
flow 
Empirical 
analysis in: 
Direct knowledge 
transfer 
The book includes the scientist’s 
research topics 
Codified Scientist-Public Section 4.2 
(interviews and 
regression) 
Indirect knowledge 
transfer 
Scientific authors talk about their 
research with cultural agents 
Tacit Scientist-Public Section 4.3 
(interviews) 
Reverse knowledge 
transfer 
Cultural agents give scientists 
ideas for future research 
Tacit Public-Scientist Section 4.3 
(interviews) 
 
We know also that knowledge transfer can run from industry to science (Fier and Pika 2014). Similarly, in 
contact with this cultural world, the scientist may obtain ideas for future knowledge generation, and thus 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
10 
generate a feedback from literary fiction to scientific production. This can be considered reverse knowledge 
transfer (RKT), based on tacit knowledge and directed from the cultural world to the scientist. Table 2  
summarizes these ideas. 
At the left-hand side of Fig. 1, we had scientific authorship of literary fiction, which  can be analysed for each 
type of knowledge transfer: direct, indirect and reverse.  In the following section, we are going to develop a  
qualitative methodology to inform and refine our theory about DKT as a function of academic logic and field of 
science (middle-box of Fig. 1 and right hand-side of Equation 2), and a quantitative methodology to test some of 
the most simple relationships. Hence, t hrough evidence from interviews to scientific writers and estimated 
regressions of Equations 1 and 2 , we will answer the first research question mentioned in the introduction , 
referred to DKT (‘do scientists use their literary works as mechanisms of direct knowledge transfer?’). Then, we 
will use the interviews to inform and refine our theory about IKT and RKT and answer our seco nd and third 
research questio ns (‘do literary woks give scientists the opportunity to indirectly transfer knowledge? ’, ‘ do 
scientists experience reverse flows  from knowledge transfer to generation in the diffusion of  their literary 
fiction?’). The last column in Table 2 relates each type of knowledge transfer to the section where the analysis is 
done and through which method. 
3 Methodology and data 
Data to answer questions a bout scientific authorship of literary fiction and knowledge transfer were extracted 
from the Spanish national database of books published by the ISBN Agency 4. The Spanish Ministry of Culture 
hosts this database along with a national publishers’ database . We included only books published in 2015. We 
selected this year for its particular interest. In the global publishing market , market value had been decreasing 
from 2006 until 2015, but rose in 2015 and the expectation is of a sustained increase in the foll owing years 
(Marketline 2016). This upward shift in the trend is true at global level and, as Fig. 2 shows, in the particular 
case of Spain and of two Spanish regions: the Valencian Community and Catalonia.  These communities were 
selected because both  are representative in terms of revenue t rend of the rest of Spain  and due to their 
geographical location in the periphery of Spain. 
                                                           
4 http://www.mecd.gob.es/cultura-mecd/areas-cultura/libro/bases-de-datos-del-isbn.html 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
11 
 
Fig. 2 Evolution of total revenues of Spanish publishing companies. Source: own elaboration based on the 
Spanish version of Bureau Van Dick’s Orbis, i.e. the Iberian Balance Analysis System (SABI). 
We first extracted a list of publishers based in these communities and then searched in the ISBN database for 
their output  in 2015 . In the case of the Valencian Community (all publishers), we expected to find small 
publishing companies. In the Catalan case  (60% of publishers in terms of revenues) , we found that this region 
comprises the main cluster of publishing companies in the country. Hence the size and company type are of a 
complete different scale in each region . The sam e can be said about the presence of higher education and 
research institutes. Barcelona comprises 12 universities, 8 of which are public and of a large size such as 
University of Barcelona or Autonomous University of Barcelona. In the case of the Valencian  Community, we 
find 9 universities, 5 of which are public and 4 private. These dissimilarities are partly due to the differences on 
population size. While Catalonia is the second Spanish community with the largest population (7.5 million 
people approximate ly), the Valencian Community has around 5 million people. This gives a variety of cases, 
ranging from local, small companies, which publish ‘amateur’ writers along with large, international companies 
publishing bestsellers. Our companies published 3,765 books in 2015. By manually checking online information 
about the books, we configured a valid sample of 541 fiction works (a 14% of the total) . Fig. 3 helps visualizing 
the structure of the database. 
To build our measure of SALF, we identified whether the authors of the fiction works were  scientists. A well-
reported issue when working with monographs is the lack of address information of the authors (Gorraiz e t al. 
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
1000000
1200000
1400000
1600000
1800000
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Revenues in Euros
Valencian Community and Catalonia
Other Spanish regions
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
12 
2013). This makes it problematic when trying to identify the institutions behind such works or the background of 
the author. Here, the identification of scientists was done manually by checking in the Internet and searching for 
information on the aut hor’s affiliation and the presence of evident signs of having done research, e.g. having 
completed a PhD, having won research prizes, etc.  
 
Fig. 3 Identifying literary fiction books in Catalonia and the Valencian Community (2015) 
Fig. 4  shows that 11% of authors were scientists. This is also the mean of our measure of SALF. We 
distinguished between academic (working at a university or  at a public research organisation) a nd non-academic 
scientists. We identified the latter by searching for evidences of a research background, such as  working at an 
industrial R&D lab, having done a P hD, having won a research prize or  having authored a research paper. Fig. 4 
shows that our sample of scientists is distributed in favour of academic scientists, although not overwhelmingly.  
Books 2015
Catalonia and 
Valencian Community
3,765
Not fiction
2,556
Children’s fiction
372
Fiction
541
Interviews to scientific 
authors
15
Other books
296
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
13 
 
Fig. 4 Scientific authors in Catalonia and the Valencian Community in 2015 
Table 3  offers details about the criteria used for individuals to qualify within each category.  Our sample 
includes historical figures like Ramón Llull (1232 -1315), a philosopher; Johann Wolfgang von  Goethe (1749 -
1832), author of ‘Faust’ and a natural scientist who published treaties in Botanics, Zoology and Optics; or Arthur 
Conan Doyle (1859 -1930), the creator of Sherlock Holmes, who published papers in Medicine. It also includes 
international bestselling scientific writers  like Deepak Chopra or  Diana Gabaldón, and Spanish national 
counterparts like María Dueñas or Joaquín Camps. 
To build DKT1, f or scientific authors, we read their books’ plot summaries and additional information where 
necessary. We considered that their fictional work transfers the contents of their research if the plot or theme is 
related to the scientist’s research lines. The corresponding binary var iable DKT1 takes value 1 if there is 
knowledge transfer and 0 otherwise. Our rating method to feed DKT is a superficial approach to the book 
contents compared to reading the whole book, but it increases feasibility. Four people gathered the data and rated 
some of the books independently, based on summaries and other information available. The instruction given 
was, ‘ Is the plot related to the author’s research lines? ’5 A fifth person who did not gather the data acted as 
referee and rated all the books to pr ovide a more homogenous rating. A sixth one acted as second referee in case 
of (very few) discrepancies. We detected the presence of direct knowledge transfer in 32% of the books with 
                                                           
5 We have also generated a variable on contextual knowledge transfer, i.e. whether in fiction works the action occurs in a scientific setting, 
prominent characters are scientists, etc., but we left it out of the analyses for simplification. 
Non-scientific 
authors
89%
Academic 
scientists
58%
Non-academic 
scientists
42%
Scientific 
authors
11%
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
14 
scientific authors. Hence, we observe that some authors made accessible their research interest to the public 
through literary fiction books . This is in line with the study of Nederhof (2006) , who defended that some 
scientists publish their research results in different forms to arrive to a broad audience.  
Table 3 Distribution of scientific author types 
Scientific author type Number %  
Academic scientist 36 58%  
Public research organization scientist 3 5%  
University scientist 33 53%  
Non-academic scientist 26 42%  
Industrial scientist with a PhD or who has occasionally worked at university or 
published scientific reports 3 5%  
Hospital scientist with a PhD 1 2%  
Ex academic 2 3%  
Has a PhD and may have occasionally worked at university and/or published in 
scientific journals 7 11%  
Has presented in academic conferences 1 2%  
Has published in scientific journals, proceedings, books or reports 11 17%  
Has won research prizes 1 2%  
Total 61 100%  
 
Concrete examples of what we considered presence of knowledge transfer are Tim Bruno, a marine biologist 
with a novel in which the main character and his friends sail the sea of a fantastic world; Christian Jacq, an 
Egyptologist who has been writing fiction and non -fiction books about Egypt for long; or, at a more local level, 
Isabel Canet Ferrer, a historian with expertise on the Monastery of Valldigna, which also appears in her novel.  
Apart from SALF and DKT1, we built other variables for the regressions. Table 4  shows the list, and their 
descriptive statistics.  We classified all scientific authors into five scientific fields  based on the OECD (2007)  
subject classification: Natural Sciences, Medical and Health Sciences, Social Sciences, Linguistics and Literature 
and Other Humanities 6. If one author had more than one field, we duplicated the number of observations and 
tabulated if knowledge transfer occurred in any of the fields.  Most scientists in our sample belong to  Linguistics 
and Literature, and Social Sciences. 
                                                           
6 We made this distinction within Humanities because of the large number of authors that belonged to Linguistics and Literature , and for the 
unusual patterns of knowledge transfer in Linguistics and Literature coming out of the interviews (see section 4.2.2). 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
15 
Table 4 List of variables and descriptive statistics 
Equation Level Name Description Mean S.D. Minimum Maximum 
1 Characteristics of the book 
(dependent variable) 
Scientific authorship of literary fiction 
(SALF) 
The book’s author is a scientist 0.11 0.32 0 1 
 Characteristics of the book 
(independent variables) 
Mode 1=Novel, 0=Short Stories, Drama, 
Aphorisms… 
0.92 0.24 0 1 
 Non-genre book  0.23 0.42 0 1 
 Genre 1 Crime-Mystery-Noir-Thriller-Horror 0.19 0.39 0 1 
 Genre 2 Fantasy-Science fiction 0.06 0.24 0 1 
 Genre 3 Historical-Adventure 0.16 0.36 0 1 
 Genre 4 Romantic-Erotic 0.16 0.37 0 1 
 Genre 5 Young adult fiction (benchmark) 0.20 0.40 0 1 
 Characteristics of the author Gender 1=Female, 0=Male (benchmark) 0.43 0.50 0 1 
  Author´s year of birth  1947 75.75 1232 1996 
  Region 1 Author from Valencian Community 0.19 0.39 0 1 
  Region 2 Author from Catalonia 0.09 0.28 0 1 
  Region 3 Author from other regions of Spain 0.26 0.44 0 1 
  Region 4 Foreign authors (benchmark) 0.46 0.50 0 1 
 Characteristics of the edition Format 1=E-book, 0=Printed (benchmark) 0.21 0.40 0 1 
 Price In euros 11.63 5.94 0.82 40.38 
 Characteristics of the publishing 
company 
Size 1 Largest company 0.53 0.50 0 1 
 Size 2 Second largest company 0.14 0.35 0 1 
2 Characteristics of the book 
(dependent variable) 
Direct knowledge transfer (DKT1) The book includes the scientist’s 
research topics 
0.32 0.47 0 1 
 Characteristics of the scientific 
author 
Scientific author type 1= Academic  
0= Non academic 
0.58 0.50 0 1 
 Scientific field 1 Natural Sciences 0.07 0.25 0 1 
 Scientific field 2 Medical and Health7 0.12 0.33 0 1 
 Scientific field 3 Social Sciences 0.29 0.46 0 1 
 Scientific field 4 Linguistics and Literature 0.38 0.49 0 1 
 Scientific field 5 Other Humanities (benchmark) 0.15 0.36 0 1 
        
                                                           
7 It includes one observation from Engineering and Technology. 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
16 
We will use our quantitative data about DKT after informing our theory with qualitative data out of interviews 
with scientific authors . Between September and October 2016, we conducted interviews to 15 scientific writers 
from our sample. In an introductory mail or call, we verified in the first place whether we had identified 
interviewees correctly as ‘scientists’. All considered themselves to be conducting or having conducted scientific 
research, including those in Humanities . The interviews (20 -30 minute long) included questions about the 
research line of the respondents, the publishing history of their book, the relation between their research line and 
their book, opportunities raised due to having published fiction literatu re to talk about their research lines with 
new audiences, and how this stimulated their own research. The fiche of individuals can be found in Table 5. 
Table 5 Interview data 
Interviewee code Scientific field Scientific sub-field 
Academic scientist 1 Social Sciences Economics 
Academic scientist 2 Humanities Linguistics and Literature 
Academic scientist 3 Social Sciences Economics 
Academic scientist 4 Humanities Linguistics and Literature, Philosophy 
Academic scientist 5 Humanities Linguistics and Literature  
Academic scientist 6 Social Sciences Media and Communications 
Academic scientist 7 Humanities Linguistics and Literature 
Academic scientist 8 Social Sciences Business 
Academic scientist 9 Humanities History 
Academic scientist 10 Social Sciences Educational Science8 
Academic scientist 11 Humanities History 
Non-academic scientist 1 Social Sciences and Humanities Linguistics and Literature, Educational Science 
Non-academic scientist 2 Humanities Linguistics and Literature 
Non-academic scientist 3 Humanities Linguistics and Literature  
Non-academic scientist 4 Medical and Health Sciences Clinical medicine 
Names of scientific fields are taken from OECD (2007). 
Interviews to scientific writers include d open questions about self -evaluations of direct knowledge transfer 
(DKT2), indirect knowledge transfer (IKT) and reverse knowledge transfer (RKT). Two individuals coded the 
answers in respective High/Low scales, indicating presence/absence of such transfer and a third one refereed in 
case of discrepancy (just one). The second column of Fig. 5  provides the measure obtained for DKT2  (50%). 
Self-reported direct knowledge transfer tends to be higher than externally evaluated direct knowledge transfer 
(DKT1=32%). The third and fourth columns of Fig. 5  report 43% and 33% values for indirect and reverse 
knowledge transfer, respectively.  
                                                           
8 During the interview, we realized Academic scientist 10 had joined academia after having written  her novel, so we removed her from the 
analysis of direct and indirect knowledge transfer. However, she is especially useful for the analysis of reverse knowledge t ransfer, since the 
risk of endogeneity is lower than in cases of having written the book during the professional practice. 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
17 
 
Fig. 5 Knowledge transfer via literary fiction in Catalonia and the Valencian Community (2015) 
In the following section, we presen t our results grouped by insight, broken down by sub -sections that mirror 
those from section 2.1. 
4 Results 
4.1 Scientific authorship of literary fiction 
In section 2.2.1, we anticipated that scientific authorship of literary fiction would be dependent on individual 
characteristics of the authors and of the type of book and publishi ng company. We estimate Equation 1 through a 
probit model, which is adequate because the dependent variable is binary (the author is either a scientist or  not). 
Despite the use of econometrics, we are not testing concrete hypotheses  but rather using the method to provide 
exploratory evidence of significant statistical relationships that could serve as basis for future research. This is 
because the focus of the paper is on knowledge transfer via literary fiction and on the relationshi p between this 
transfer and scientific authorship of literary fiction. Hence, the interest in scientific authorship of literary fiction 
is not per se but conditional on its relationship with knowledge transfer. 
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
Direct knowledge
transfer 1
Direct knowledge
transfer 2
Indirect knowledge
transfer
Reverse knowledge
transfer
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
18 
Table 6  contains the results and t he chi -square confirms that t he model is significant . With regards to the 
characteristics of the book, curiously, being a novel (as opposed to other forms of fiction) is negat ively 
significant, which means that scientists tend to write short stories –an explanation for this phenomenon could be 
that writing short stories is in line with the concision of the scientific writing style. Scientific authors tend to 
publish more in the historical-adventure genre.  
Table 6 Probit estimation of scientific authorship of literary fiction 
Variable Coefficient 
Novel -0.49**  
 (0.22)    
Non-genre book -0.01    
 (0.20)    
Crime-Mystery-Noir-Thriller-Horror 0.20    
 (0.18)    
Fantasy-Science fiction 0.16    
 (0.30)    
Historical-Adventure 0.38**  
 (0.19)    
Romantic-Erotic -0.29    
 (0.28)    
Young adult fiction (benchmark)  
  
Female author 0.04    
 (0.15)    
Author´s year of birth -0.00    
 (0.00)    
Author from Valencian Community 0.32*   
 (0.19)    
Author from Catalonia -0.44*   
 (0.25)    
Author from other regions of Spain 0.03    
 (0.13)    
Foreign author (benchmark)  
  
E-book 0.48*** 
 (0.17)    
Price 0.03*** 
 (0.01)    
Largest company -0.40**  
 (0.18)    
Second largest company -0.29    
 (0.20)    
Constant 10.03*** 
 (2.27)    
Observations 541    
χ2 24.11    
p 0.00    
 * p<0.1; ** p<0.05; *** p<0.01. Standard errors in brackets. Weighted by inverse number of duplications due to 
multiple authoship, field of science or format. 
About characteristics of the author, age and gender do not have an influence, but t he probability of finding 
scientific authors increases when the author is from the Valencian Community and decreases when the author is 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
19 
from Catalonia. This may be due to differences in the characteristics of publishers in each region as discussed 
above.  
Characteristics of the edition are the most significant. Scientific authors tend to publish more e -books (rather 
than printed versions)  than non-scientific authors,  and the price of scientific authors’ books is higher than the 
price of books published by non -scientific authors. About the publisher, large r companies publish fewer books 
written by scientific authors than the rest.9 
We will use th e former estimation as Step 1 of a Heckman probit model of the presence of direct knowledge 
transfer according to type of scientist and scientific field. Before proceeding to do so, we will use our qualitative 
evidence to increase understanding of the chan nels involved in the relationships and refine our conceptual theory 
from section 2.2.2. 
4.2 Direct knowledge transfer 
4.2.1 Direct knowledge transfer and academic logic: qualitative results 
In section 2.2.2.A, we speculated whether academic scientists were less prone to transfer knowledge directly 
than non-academic scientists. Our qualitative findings tend to support this view. Table 7 shows that, according to 
our coding of respondents’ answers, the percentage of non -academic scientists providing oral evidence of direct 
knowledge transfer in their books is higher than that of academic scientists. 
Table 7 Distribution of interviewees according to scientist type and direct knowledge transfer (n=14)  
 Low direct knowledge transfer 
(DKT2=0) 
High direct knowledge transfer 
(DKT2=1) 
Total 
Academic scientist 60% 40% 100% 
Non-academic scientist 25% 75% 100% 
Total 50% 50% 100% 
 
                                                           
9 As deducible from historical examples in section 3, w e have included deceased writers  in the sample. This was important conceptually to 
show the prevalence of the phenomenon of scientific writers. However, there are not man y deceased writers (9%) and their inclusion does 
not condition the results. When we include a dummy for deceased authors or remove them from the sample, the sign and significance of all 
coefficients hold. 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
20 
Some extracts from interviews about academic scientists’ motivations for writing literary fiction illustrate 
why so few knowledge transfer in their case. The typical academic scientist declares that his/her fiction work is 
not about his/her research topics, so there is no knowledge transfer: 
It’s like a form of evasion –you get to like it, and what starts being a hobby […] is finally like a second job. 
(Academic Scientist 3) 
The terms ‘hobby’ and ‘evasion’ or synonyms are recurrent in interviews. However, the academic profession 
is supposed to be creative and endow much freedom. Why such a need for evasion?  One reason may be  the 
perception that scientific creativity is at odds with artistic creativity: 
The use of language with aesthetic and artistic goals is something you cannot afford […] when you’re writing 
academic works and papers. 
(Academic Scientist 5) 
This resonates wi th the idea that artistic and scientific personalities are different: artistic personality is, for 
instance, more reluctant to norms (Feist 1998). To the very end, literary fiction may be more  creative and 
motivating than research, so lack of organizational and institutional support to literary fiction may translate into 
employee burnout (Madjar 2008): 
Professional accomplishment of academic routines […] stopped being satisfactory.  
(Academic Scientist 6) 
Sometimes, alleviating the tension from this misalign ment becomes a practical concern , which makes sense 
given that growth need strength motivates creativity (Shalley et al. 2009): 
[The academic and literary world] are very apart from each other […]. I’d love there were bridges, channels 
from one to another […]. My dream would be to try to link research with […] things that I can use in my 
stories, and not to be constantly schizophrenic […]. 
(Academic Scientist 11) 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
21 
The same individual exemplifies to what extent alleviating the  disconnection can have a positive effect on 
personal development: 
People from my academic world have been invited to presentations […], so it has forced me to show a facet of 
mine that was not known at public level: it’s been like ‘getting out of the closet’, the fact of saying, ‘ Well, I 
also do this’. And this has been useful, and good to me, and has made me lose some inhibitions.  
 
By opposition to the above quotes, non -academic scientists gives concrete examples of knowledge transfer of 
their research lines in their fiction works, e.g.: 
 [For my work] I did a lot of research on bullying […] and thought about writing an essay on this [...].  Why 
not a novel for teenagers to work out the problem of school bullying? […]. The police from [a town] saw this 
book, and proposed it at every institute and I went to all of them to talk about the book. 
(Non-Academic Scientist 1) 
As anticipated in section 2.2.2.A, we attribute this alignment to the usefu lness of literary fiction for 
competence signalling in non -academic scientists. Other examples can be found in the Medical and Health 
Sciences: 
I like scientific knowledge within the work and in all my novels there is some aspect of scientific 
dissemination. Even in [the novel from the sample], on Forensic Medicine and Psychology. There is a 
character that has an obsessive-compulsive disorder, another one who is autistic… 
(Non-Academic Scientist 4) 
Hence, our qualitative findings inform the implicit proposition from our conceptual theory that academic logic 
reduces direct knowledge transfer via literary fiction , and suggest explanations rooted in organizational and 
management psychology. We now move to the relationship between this transfer and scientific fi elds. 
4.2.2 Direct knowledge transfer and scientific fields: qualitative results 
In section  2.2.2.B, we speculated whether literary fiction gave Social Sciences and Huma nities the 
opportunity to stand out in knowledge transfer compared to other scientific fields, contrary to what happens 
when comparison is based on usual knowledge transfer channels such us patents, R&D contracts, spinoffs, etc. 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
22 
We selected informants from those fields mainly, to increase particular understanding about knowledge transfer 
via literary fiction there. Three patterns emerged: (1) in Social Sciences, contrary to our expectations, there was 
no much knowledge transfer; ( 2) in Humanities, there was considerable knowledge transfer; (3) within 
Humanities, the case of Linguistics and Literature was different from that of Other Humanities (mainly History 
and Philosophy). More specifically, whereas in Other Humanities our external perception of direct knowledge 
transfer (DKT1) matched the authors’ own perception (DKT2), this was not true for Linguistics and Literature.  
Table 8 gives a detailed account of such relation. Before interviews, we considered that most scientific writer s 
interviewed did not transfer knowledge in their books (DKT1=0). After interviews, we confirmed this choice in 
less than half of the cases (DKT2=0) but not for the other half (DKT2=1). A quick look at the data suggested that 
the lack of validation affected mostly to scientists working in the fields of Linguistics and Literature. Even out of 
the two scientific writers interviewed that we considered transferring knowl edge in their books (DKT1=1), one 
did not consider transferring that much (DKT2=0). He also belonged to the field of Linguistics and Literature. 
Table 8 Distribution of interviewees according to external (DKT1) and internal (DKT2) perception of direct 
knowledge transfer 
 DKT2 = 0 DKT2 = 1 Total 
DKT1 = 0 6 6 12 
Linguistics and Literature 1 5 6 
Other scientific fields 5 1 6 
DKT1 = 1 1 1 2 
Linguistics and Literature 1  1 
Other scientific fields  1 1 
Total 6 7 14 
 
The explanation of the divergence between DKT1 and DKT2 in Linguistics and Literature may lie in the 
scarce distance between research objects and the fiction book as a transfer mechanism in this field. For instance, 
linguists may study structural or stylistic properties o f language that are embedded in the book, but become 
hermetic to the external evaluator of knowledge transfer. Scholars in the field are disseminating knowledge 
about the use of language through their fiction books.  We call this ‘format -content interference’ and it only 
affects Linguistics and Literature. Because of this,  DKT1 could underestimate direct knowledge transfer via 
literary fiction in this field.  Belonging to the field of Linguistics and Literature may increase direct knowledge 
transfer via literary fiction, but in ways that are not so tangibly disseminated to the reader as in Other 
Humanities. 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
23 
Our qualitative  findings have two implications: First, we need to reformulate the implicit proposition in 
section 2.2.2.B that Social Sciences and Humanities stand out in knowledge transfer via literary fiction ; now, we 
expect only Humanities and not Social Sciences to stand out . Second, for an econometric validation of a positive 
relationship between Humanities and direct knowledge transfer measured via an externally evaluated indicator of 
direct knowledge transfer such as DKT1, we have to split Linguistics and Literature from O ther Humanities, 
since DKT1 is not likely to capture direct knowledge transfer in Linguistics and Literature. Hence, we expect to 
validate through econometrics a positive relationship between DKT1 and Other Humanities only. This 
differentiation also ratifies the decision to split Linguistics and Literature from Other Humanities taken after the 
large number of individuals in Linguistics and Literature in the sample (see footnote 6).  
4.2.3 Direct knowledge transfer, academic logic and scientific fields: Quantitative results 
The analysis of interviews has opened up some of the channels behind the relationships between direct 
knowledge transfer and two of its potential driving forces: academic logic and scientific field, as proposed in 
section 2.2. We can now proceed with some quantitative analysis of the most basic relationships, i.e. direct 
effects of academic logic and scientific field on direct knowledge transfer . This loses the richness of qualitative 
data but offers a first methodological approach to explore systematically samples of larger size that those used 
for the qualitative insights. 
We start with some simple statistics. Table 9  includes the average value of DKT1 according to whether  
scientific authors are academics or not. We can see that non-academic scientists tend to transfer knowledge more 
often than academic scientists do via literary fiction. 
Table 9 Average direct knowledge transfer by scientific author type and field (n=61) 
Variable Dimension  Average direct knowledge transfer (DKT1) 
Scientific author type Academic  0.24 
 Non-academic  0.43 
Scientific field Natural Sciences  0.25 
 Medical and Health Sciences  0.60 
 Social Sciences  0.23 
 Linguistics and Literature  0.11 
 Other Humanities  0.83 
Weighted by inverse number of duplications due to multiple authoship, field of science or format.  
Table 9  also includes the average value of DKT1 by scientific field. Specifically, we find that scientific 
authors of literary fic tion from Other Humanities and Medical and Health Sciences  publish about topics related 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
24 
to their fields above the sample average (0.32 according to Table 4), whereas the rest of fields are under average. 
This includes Social Sciences and Linguistics and Literature, as suggested by our qualitative findings. 
These results need to be tested in an econometric setting , to control for sample selection and other factor s. 
This is what we d o next. We run a Heckman probit model that uses estimates of equation 1 from Table 6 in the 
first step and equation 2 in the second step . Table 10  presents the results of this second step . The Heckman 
model is a priori appropriate because there might be issues of self-selection bias that could influence the findings 
about knowledge transfer (namely, if scientific authors are not standard authors ). For instance, we could expect a 
larger number of scientific authors in the historical genre because of the co des of that genre (history scholars are 
better documented about the context of the action than other authors). This is why equation 1 acts as a selection 
equation for equation 2.  A posteriori, the significant chi-square of the selection equation in Table 10 indicates 
that there is evidence of sample selection, so it confirms that the Heckman probit model is adequate. 
Table 10 Heckman probit estimation of presence of direct knowledge transfer in literary fiction works: Step 2 
Variable Coefficient 
Academic scientist -0.66**  
 (0.30)    
Natural Sciences -1.66*** 
 (0.55)    
Medical and Health Sciences -0.90*** 
 (0.34)    
Social Sciences -1.34*** 
 (0.39)    
Linguistics and Literature -1.59*** 
 (0.34)    
Other Humanities (benchmark)  
  
Constant -0.26    
 (0.40)    
Observations 541    
Censored observations 480    
χ2 48.20    
p 0.00    
 * p<0.1; ** p<0.05; *** p<0.01. Step 1 is the estimation in Table 6. Standard errors in brackets.  Weighted by 
inverse number of duplications due to multiple authoship, field of science or format.  
According to the results, we endorse most findings from Table 9. In Table 10, on the one hand, we see that the 
presence of knowledge transfer is negatively related to the scientific author being academic. Hence, we observe 
that non -academic scientific authors (those who are not working at a university or at a public research 
organisation) transfer knowledge through their literary works more often than academic authors do. On the other 
hand, belonging to Other Humanities increases the probability of finding knowledge transfer, compared to other 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
25 
fields of science. Medical and Health Scienc es, despite scoring above average in DKT1 ( Table 9), do not stand 
out vis-à-vis Other Humanities, once sample selection and academic logic are accounted for. 
4.3 Indirect and reverse knowledge transfer 
In section 2.2.3, we claimed that the analysis of forms of knowledge transfer  other than direct knowledge 
transfer was important to provide a comprehensive picture of literary fiction by scientific authors. Our qualitative 
evidence let us be more specific, and disentangle some relationships between indirect/reverse knowledge transfer 
and academic logic, analogous to t he relationship between direct knowledge transfer and academic logic, but 
pointing in another direction. 
Let us start with indirect knowledge transfer. Our coding of interviewees’ responses on IKT (i.e. via contact 
with cultural circles), appears in Table 11 . Compared to DKT in Table 7 , almost the opposite picture arises: 
academic scientists engage more often on IKT than non-academic scientists. 
Table 11 Distribution of interviewees according to scientist type and indirect knowledge transfer (n= 14) 
 Low indirect knowledge transfer 
(IKT2=0) 
High indirect knowledge transfer 
(IKT2=1) 
Total 
Academic scientist 40% 60% 100% 
Non-academic scientist 100% 0% 100% 
Total 57% 43% 100% 
 
Apparently, it is commonplace for academic scientists to discuss  their own research topics with, for example , 
editors: 
My research work is something that I’ve talked about many times in informa l conversations with my editors  
[…] because they were interested in the topic I had worked through; they got my essay book […]. Hence, they 
are always informed about that work and […] they value it very positively. 
(Academic Scientist 5) 
Occasionally this indirect transfer yields academic benefits for the author (and further engagement into 
transfer activities): 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
26 
After having published with them, [the editors] called me to do the foreword of a book by [another academic 
scientist], which is a  book about sustainable economy  […]. It amused them, didn’t it?  ‘We have a writer who 
knows about Economics and who is professor of Economics on top’. 
(Academic Scientist 3) 
Hence, editors’ awareness of expert knowledge by a cademics is likely to enhance the positive influence of 
academic logic on in direct knowledge transfer . This is logical given the importance of editors for selecting 
contents (Banou 2013). In addition, informal contacts may reach beyond editors: 
Conversation [with the public] may derive to,  ‘What is your research about?’  So… ‘university -industry 
relationships’ […] and this is a topic about which people have an opinion […]: ‘It’s good that universities 
work for companies because otherwise universities study useless things’ [or, on the contrary] ‘It’s bad that 
universities work for companies because companies have their own interests’ […]. This way you start a 
dialogue with people […] and I can go a bit deeper into the results of my research.  
(Academic Scientist 1). 
Therefore, selection of topics with some degree of public controversy seems to be a key driver  of indirect 
knowledge transfer. On the opposite side, non -academic scientists did not recall any similar memory about this 
type of transfer. 
Let us now continue w ith reverse knowledge transfer. In Table 12, we can see that academics also practice it 
more often than non -academics. Reverse knowledge transfer is just not as fr equent as indirect knowledge 
transfer for academics is, whereas for non-academics both are equally rare. 
Table 12 Distribution of interviewees according to scientist type and reverse knowledge transfer (n= 15) 
 
Low reverse knowledge transfer 
(RKT2=0) 
High reverse knowledge transfer 
(RKT2=1) Total 
Academic scientist 55% 45% 100% 
Non-academic scientist 100% 0% 100% 
Total 67% 33% 100% 
 
Some testimonies provide evidence of the positive relation  between academic logic and reverse knowledge 
transfer, e.g. in Linguistics and Literature: 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
27 
[Contact with readers] gives me the key afterwards when it comes to explain in a lecture or in a paper some 
of these techniques, that there are other options [...]. [My own] professor and researcher [self] and [my own] 
creator a nd novelist [self] are lucky enough to work in the same field, it’s a continuous feedback… fr om 
theory to practice and from practice to theory. 
(Academic Scientist 7) 
Some degree of openness seems to be at stake in this kind of statement , let ‘openness’ be  the broadly defined 
taste of scientists for engagement in usable research ( Olmos-Peñuela et al. 2015), or the more concrete 
personality trait ‘openness to experience’ ( McCrae and Sutin 2009). We may expect an academic scientist 
characterized by high level s of intellectual curiosity to be more prone to incorporate external ideas after 
knowledge transfer. This can also be acknowledged in the following example from Educational Science: 
The main character [of my novel] is Asperger […] . I did some [non-academic] research for the character,  
although I did not have it as [an academic] research idea 10. [My academic research is] about the  effects of 
the introduction of new methodologies or ICTs in the classroom, e.g. the use of iPads or B -learning. In a 
paper, I put it as future research, [how those changes affect] that type of children with some low capabilities, 
like Asperger, who need routines and follow an order […] . Then I have done some [academic] research about 
Asperger. Yes, the research I did for [my novel] has been useful for future research. 
(Academic Scientist 10) 
Therefore, qualitative evidence suggests that, contrary to the case of direct knowledge transfer, academic 
logic increases other forms of knowledge transfer: indirect and reverse. 
4.4 Discussion 
This paper presents the first attempt of exploring the role that literary writing by scientists could play as a 
non-formal knowledge transfer mechanism. In our analyses, we have found evidences to suggest that this path 
deserves attention. Probably a minority of academics writes,  but many writers are academics, so we believe that 
                                                           
10 Actually, let us recall, as in a previous footnote, that Academic Scientist 10 joined academia after having written the novel. 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
28 
the above empirical findings support the formulation of propositions, which  should be further explored . This  
may serve as a basis for more ad hoc and/or large scale empirical testing. 
Scientific authorship of literary fiction is a prevalent phenomenon. We have example s of eminent and/or 
commercial scientific authors among writers. They have populated the history of literature. Even in concrete 
regions, we find conside rable shares of scientific authors. As seen in section 4.1, they differ from non -scientific 
authors in their higher presence in e-books, in smaller, less potent eco nomic regions (the Valencian Community 
compared to Catalonia), and in smaller publishing companies, all of which suggests a sort of marginalization of 
scientific authors. However, their books are typically more expensive than books of non-scientific authors, which 
suggests the opposite. More evidence from other regions, countries and periods is needed to reconcile these 
aspects. 
Focusing on scientific authors, t he distribution of testimonies in Table 7, plus the quotations in section  4.2.1, 
let us think that n on-academic logic increases direct knowledge transfer via literary fiction, compared to 
academic logic. The higher average direct knowledge transfer  of non-academic scientists compared to academic 
scientists (Table 9), which holds after controlling for many other variables ( Table 10) confirm so. The reason is 
that academic scholars see this as a channel of evasion from thei r research activities , so lack of organizational 
and institutional support to literary fiction may translate into employee burnout of academics with artistic 
personality; on the contrary, for those academics that become fiction authors, this may constitute a source of 
personal development. Hence, we find that direct scientific knowledge transfer via literary fiction i s feasible, but 
non-academic scientists tend to show higher propensity to transfer knowledge than academic scientists do. 
We do find differences by field , with higher levels of alignment in Humanities, where the distinction between 
working and spare time f or writing fiction may not be as neat as in the taxonomy presented in  Table 1 . The 
higher average value of direct knowledge transfer  in Other Humanities compared to the rest of fields ( Table 9), 
which holds after controlling for many other variables ( Table 10), allow positing that belonging to the field of 
Humanities (other than Linguistics and Literature) increases direct knowledge transfer via literary fiction, 
compared to fields other than Huma nities. However, the relation between writing literary fiction as a knowledge 
transfer strategy still needs to be better explored for Linguistics and Literature. Due to what we have named 
‘format-content interference’, we have not been able to adopt a reli able means to measure the content alignment 
in such field, although our qualitative data suggest that knowledge transfer is high (see Table 8). 
Our findings point out that academic scientists outperform non -academic scientists in producing indirect 
knowledge transfer through contacts with the cultural world and in obtaining reverse knowledge transfer for 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
29 
future knowledge generation. Indeed, we observe  a higher frequ ency of interview quotes reporting indirect and 
reverse knowledge transfer of academic scientists, vis-à-vis non-academic scientists (Tables 11 and 12). Through 
the extracts from section 4.3, in the case of indirect knowledge transfer, we attribute it to influences somehow 
external to the scientific author, like the editors’ awareness of the importance of academics, or the existence of 
public controversy about research topics. In the case of reverse knowledge transfer, the personality of the 
scientific author has a larger role, and individual openness seems to be an important prerequisite . 
5 Conclusions 
As members of publicly funded organizations, academic scienti sts have a central role on the creation of new 
knowledge in order to facilitate social progress. Lately, a key concern for policy makers is to learn about the 
contribution of academic scientists to social development. In this sense, contributions have been  normally 
understood in terms of research activity and output, and not in terms of the implications of having an academic 
population embedded in a cultural environment. Here we build on the creative class of Florida (2005) , where it is 
suggested that the i nclusion of a certain group of individuals enhances cultural development and enrichment. 
However, to our knowledge, studies analysing the sociocultural relationship between cities and their universities 
tend to focus on specific case studies (Benneworth et  al. 2010; Breznitz and Feldman 2010). These studies 
acknowledge sociocultural benefits, but focus on socioeconomic development and the nurturing of creative 
industries, and do not focus on knowledge transfer mechanisms that may trigger sociocultural outco mes in cities. 
We propose to analyse the  role of scientists  in literary fiction  and, specifically , the use of this channel for 
knowledge transfer. 
The consideration of scientific authorship of literary fiction as a knowledge transfer mechanism has led us t o a 
theoretical contribution to existing taxonomies that distinguish formal and informal mechanisms: if scientific 
authorship of literary fiction leads to knowledge transfer, it would fit into a new category of non -formal 
mechanisms. Scientists do not use them for the sake of transfer but transfer is an important constituent, and 
scientists use them in their spare time rather than during office hours, as opposed to formal an informal 
mechanism. This concept open s two lines of inquiry. First, a conceptual on e: are there any other mechanisms 
that fit into the category of non -formal mechanisms? Second, one with practical implications: should university 
managers try to internalize non-formal mechanisms and make them part of the organization? 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
30 
We have also conceptualized the role of literary fiction as a vessel of knowledge transfer. Within the field of 
Innovation Studies, an alternative interesting approach would have been to establish an analogy between 
academic writers and academic entrepreneurs. We have already mentioned that the difference between academic 
scientists and non -scientists can influence performance same as the difference between academic and non -
academic entrepreneurs (Ayoub et al. 2016). W e could also ask to what extent academic authorship of literary 
fiction is similar to academic entrepreneurship, and hence whether it has a negative effect on scientific 
publication and co -publication performance (Barbier i et al. 2016). Taking the analogy a step beyond, we may 
elucubrate that both academic writers and entrepreneurs are seeking for further rewards beyond academy. While 
monetary rewards will probably not be one of academic writers’ main motivations, our findings suggest some 
similarities with other extrinsic motivations suc h as the ‘immense satisfaction from engaging in challenging and 
creative activities’ (Lam 2011).  In this regard, we consider that further research should seek for detailing 
motivations that lead scientists to engage on scientific authorship of literary fic tion. Clearly, most of our 
interviewees are like ‘serial entrepreneurs’ since most of them (11 out of 14) had published repeatedly, before 
and/or after our target year (2015). 
The benefits of academic engagement in writing literary fiction  indicate the convenience of introducing this 
topic in the research agenda of scholars interested in knowledge transfer. Through the paper, we have shown that 
a related relevant problem is the burnout of academic employees with artistic personality who find lack of 
support by their organizations. Taken to the extreme, t he ultimate problem would be that of a brain drain, i.e. 
whether scientific writers leave academia for literature, and hence whether academia is losing individuals with a 
particular skill that could be better  fuelled within their organizations.  Famous examples in our sample of 
academics leaving academia after major success include Diana Gabaldón (ex Northern Arizona University ) and 
María Dueñas (ex University of Murcia ), authors of the best sellers ‘Outlander’  and ‘The Time in Between’, 
respectively, both adapted for television.  However, there are examples of the contrary , e.g. Umberto Eco, who 
has continued with his literary career and pursued it as part of his academic life. Systematic exploration of these 
issues would be convenient. 
After our work, it would be tempting to draw conclusions about the convenience of including scientific 
authorship of literary fiction into the evaluation of academic merit, especially if it involves knowledge transfer. 
However, the research line is at too early stage to propose clear recommendations about changes in promotion 
incentives. Milder initiatives that would foster a creative culture  among academics would be improving 
centralised data collection at universities  about the literary activities of their faculty;  and creating institutional 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
31 
webpages to exhibit that kind of  information. There are already examples of this, e.g. in the Complutense 
University of Madrid11. 
This consideration leads to another potentially pro blematic aspect around the topic of scientific writers.  The 
institutional implications of considering literary work within academics’ scholarly works could be especially 
important in Humanities, as this field has been traditionally neglected within universities’ priorities (Taylor et al. 
2013). The promotion (within or outside of the traditional scientific evaluation system) of creative and artistic 
facets of scholars could enhance their presence and highlight their value within their institution. In a time  when 
the Arts and Humanities are undervalued and considered secondary , with funding devoted to them being 
diminished (Deb 2017), searching and emphasizing alternative and creative venues which are already being used 
by researchers for knowledge transfer such as writing fiction could highlight the importance of the role of such 
fields. 
This is just the beginning of much possible further research. We find differences between the external 
perception and the authors’ self -perception on direct knowledge transfe r of their literary work , which should be 
re-examined. While the external method employed may not be ideal, we consider that o ur approach is at least 
feasible and multifaceted (with quantitative and qualitative data), so we hope it has been enough to raise  
awareness of a prevalent phenomenon and establish propositions for future research.  Application of text -mining 
techniques for a deeper and, to some extent, automatized comparison of fiction books and research papers by the 
same authors would be a logical follow -up route. In addition,  since we have studied the presence of scientific 
writers among all writers only,  this line could be enriched by analysing the presence of scientific writers among 
all scientists, so that we could answer whet her scientific writers publish as much scientific output  and of the 
same quality as other scientists . Another open question is  under what condition s we may find ambidextrous 
scientists that can publish, commercialise and engage in non -formal knowledge tran sfer simultaneously (Chang 
et al. 2016) . Finally, we may be interested to know whether scientific writers are more read than other writers 
are, but readership or sales figures are not publicly available, so this should be the subject of another study.  
                                                           
11 https://biblioteca.ucm.es/escritores/ [last access 20/10/2016]. 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
32 
Acknowledgements 
This research was funded by project AICO/2016/A/107 of the Valencian Regional Government. Nicol ás 
Robinson-Garcia was supported by a Juan de la Cierva -Formación Fellowship from the Spanish Ministry of 
Economy and Competitiveness. We are indebt ed to Pablo Marín Liébana (supported by CSIC’s Fellowship JAE -
INT 16/00455) for his work in the database, conducting interviews and sharing ideas, and to the authors 
interviewed for their patience and generosity. Some of them informed about their consent t o be mentioned by 
name: Sergio R. Alarte (‘Tormentas de verano’), María Ángeles Chavarría (‘Mi otro yo’), Juan Pablo Heras (‘De 
fábula’), Xavier Minguez (‘Flor de carxofa’), Lluís Miret (L’ombra del mal’), Javier Navarro (‘Tableaux 
vivants’) and Fedosy San taella (‘El dedo de David Lynch’). David Barberá -Tomás, Alejandra Boni, Elena 
Castro-Martínez and Richard Woolley provided invaluable feedback through informal talks, and other INGENIO 
colleagues during a seminar presentation.  Thanks as well to attendants to the presentations of the paper at the 
2016 Science and Technology Indicators Conference, the 2016 Technology Transfer Conference, the 2017 
Bologna Workshop ‘ University-Industry Collaborations and Academic Entrepreneurship ’ and the 2017 Druid 
Conference for their participation and constructive comments, especially to our discussants Dipesh Sigdell, 
Carmelo Cennamo and Juan Antonio Candiani. 
References 
Ayoub, M. R., Gottschalk, S., & Müller, B. ( 2016). Impact of public seed -funding on academic spin -offs. The 
Journal of Technology Transfer, online first. 
Azagra-Caro, J. M., Aznar -Marquez, J., & Blanco, J. M. (2008). Interactive vs. non -interactive knowledge 
production by faculty members. Applied Economics, 40(10), 1289-1297. 
Baccini, A., Barabesi, L., Cioni, M., & Pisani, C. (2014). Crossing the hurdle: the determinants of individual 
scientific performance. Scientometrics, 101(3), 2035-2062. 
Banou, C. (2013). The Organization of Book-Publishing Houses in a Changing Era. Logos, 24(1), 30-40. 
Barbieri, E., Rubini, L., Pollio, C., & Micozzi, A. (2016). What are the trade-offs of academic entrepreneurship? 
An investigation on the Italian case. The Journal of Technology Transfer, online first. 
Benneworth, P. (2014). Tracing how the arts and humanities research translates, circulates and consolidates in 
society. How have scholars been reacting to diverse impact and public value agendas?  Arts and Humanities 
in Higher Education,14(1), 45-60. 
Benneworth, P., Charles, D., & Mada nipour, A. (2010). Building Localized Interactions Between Universities 
and Cities Through University Spatial Development. European Planning Studies, 18(10), 1611–29.  
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
33 
Bercovitz, J., & Feldman, M. (2006). Entrepreneurial universities and technology transfer: A conce ptual 
framework for understanding knowledge-based economic development. The Journal of Technology Transfer , 
31(1), 175-188. 
Bradley, S. R., Hayter, C. S., & Link, A. (2013). Models and methods of university technology transfer. 
Foundations and Trends in Entrepreneurship, 9(6). 
Breznitz, S. M., & Feldman, M. P. (2010). The engaged univers ity. The Journal of Technology Transfer, 37 (2: 
139–57. 
Carayol, N., & Matt, M. (2006). Individual and collective determinants of academic scientists’ productivity. 
Information Economics and Policy, 18(1), 55-72. 
Cassity, E., & Ang, I. (2006). Humanities –Industry Partnerships and the ‘Knowledge Society’: The Australian 
Experience. Minerva, 44(1), 47–63.  
Chang, Y. C., Yang, P. Y., Martin, B. R., Chi, H. R., & Tsai -Lin, T. F. (2016). Entrepreneurial universities and 
research ambidexterity: A multilevel analysis. Technovation, 54, 7-21. 
Colardyn, D., & Bjornavold, J. (2004). Validation of formal, non ‐formal and informal learning: Policy and 
practices in EU member states. European Journal of Education, 39(1), 69-89. 
Crozier, W. R. (1999). Age and individual differences in artistic productivity: Trends within a sample of British 
novelists. Creativity Research Journal, 12(3), 197-204. 
D’Este, P., & Patel, P. (2007). Universi ty–industry linkages in the UK: What are the factors underlying the 
variety of interactions with industry? Research Policy, 36(9), 1295–1313. 
Deb, S. (2017 , March 15 ). Trump proposes eliminating the Arts and Humanities endowments.  The New York 
Times, Retrieved from: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/15/arts/nea-neh-endowments-trump.html 
Ehlenz, M. M. (2015). Neighborhood Revitalization and the Anchor Institution Assessing the Impact of the 
University of Pennsylvania’s West Philadelphia Initiatives on Un iversity City. Urban Affairs Review , 
1078087415601220. 
Fähnrich, B. (2015). Science diplomacy: Investigating the perspective of scholars on politics –science 
collaboration in international affairs. Public Understanding of Science, 0963662515616552. 
Feist, G . J. (1998). A meta -analysis of personality in scientific and artistic creativity. Personality and social 
psychology review, 2(4), 290-309. 
Fier, H., & Pyka, A. (2014). Against the one -way-street: analyzing knowledge transfer from industry to science. 
The Journal of Technology Transfer, 39(2), 219-246. 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
34 
Florida, R. (2005). Cities and the creative class. Routledge. 
Goddard, J. (2009). Re-inventing the civic university. NESTA. 
Gorraiz, J., Purnell, P. J., & Glänzel, W. (2013). Opportunities for and limitations of the Book Citation Index. 
Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, 64(7), 1388–1398 
Lam, A. (2011). What motivates academic scientists to engage in research commercialization: ‘Gold’, ‘ribb on’ 
or ‘puzzle’? Research Policy, 40(10), 1354-1368. 
Landry, R., Amara, N., & Ouimet, M. (2006). Determinants of knowledge transfer: evidence from Canadian 
university researchers in Natural Sciences and engineering. The Journal of Technology Transfer , 32(6), 561–
592. 
Link, A. N., Siegel, D. S., & Bozeman, B. (2007). An empirical analysis of the propensity of academics to 
engage in informal university technology transfer. Industrial and corporate change, 16(4), 641-655. 
Madjar, N. (2008). Emotional and informational support from different sources and employee creativity. Journal 
of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 81(1), 83-100. 
MarketLine (2016): MarketLine Industry Profile: Global Publishing . Rockville: MarketLine, in: 
www.marketline.com [last access: 28/5/2017] 
McCrae, R. R., & Sutin, A. R. (2009). Openness to experience. Handbook of individual differences in social 
behavior, 257-273. 
Molas-Gallart, J., & Tang, P. (2011). Tracing ‘productive interactions ’ to identify social impacts: an example 
from the Social Sciences. Research Evaluation, 20(3), 219–226. 
Nederhof, A. J. (2006). Bibliometric monitoring of research performance in the Social Sciences and the 
Humanities: A Review. Scientometrics, 66(1), 81–100. 
OECD (2000): Knowledge Management in the Learning Society , Paris: Organisation for Economic Co -operation 
and Development. 
OECD (2007). Revised Fields of Science and Technology , Paris: Organisation for Economic Co -operation and 
Development. 
Olmos-Peñuela, J., Benneworth, P., & Castro -Martínez, E. (2015). What stimulates researchers to make their 
research usable? Towards an ‘openness’ approach. Minerva, 53(4), 381-410. 
Olmos-Peñuela, J., Castro -Martínez, E., & D’Este, P. (2014). Knowledge transfer activities in Social Sciences 
and humanities: Explaining the interactions of research groups with non -academic agents. Research Policy, 
43(4), 696–706. 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 2018. doi:10.1007/s10961-018-9672-6 
35 
Parker, I. (2015). Podemos as event or not: what it looks like from Manchester. Teknokultura, 12(1), 153-160. 
Perkmann, M., King, Z., & Pavelin, S. (2011). Engaging excellence? Effects of faculty quality on university 
engagement with industry. Research Policy, 40(4), 539-552. 
Perkmann, M., Tartari, V., McKelvey, M., Autio, E., Broström, A. , D’Este, P., ... & Krabel, S. (2013). Academic 
engagement and commercialisation: A review of the literature on university –industry relations. Research 
policy, 42(2), 423-442. 
Shalley, C. E., Gilson, L. L., & Blum, T. C. (2009). Interactive effects of grow th need strength, work context, 
and job complexity on self-reported creative performance. Academy of Management Journal, 52(3), 489-505. 
Shehu, E., Prostka, T., Schmidt -Stölting, C., Clement, M., & Blömeke, E. (2014). The influence of book 
advertising on sales in the German fiction book market. Journal of Cultural Economics, 38(2), 109-130. 
Smith, H. L., & Bagchi -Sen, S. (2012). The researc h university, entrepreneurship and regional development: 
Research propositions and current evidence. Entrepreneurship & Regional Development, 24(5-6), 383-404. 
Taylor, B.J., Cantwell, B., & Slaughter, S. (2013). Quasi markets in U.S. Higher Education: The humanities and 
institutional revenues. The Journal of Higher Educations, 84(5), 675-707.  
Thelwall, M. (2017). Book genre and author gender: Romance> Paranormal -Romance to Autobiography> 
Memoir. Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology, 68(5), 1212-1223. 
Tijssen, R. J. W. (2006). Universities and industrially relevant science: Towards measurement models and 
indicators of entrepreneurial orientation. Research Policy, 35(10), 1569–1585. 