Activity Frames: Deterministic Screen-Activity Compilation
for Agent Memory and Replay
Nossa Iyamu ∗
Abstract
Computer-use agents pay full frontier inference to re-
derive routines their user has already performed, because
an agent’s memory today records what the user said,
not what the user did. We compile passively captured
screen activity into agent memory with a deterministic,
zero-model pipeline: it segments a local capture stream
into typedactivity frames, bounded episodes carrying
application, site, timing, input volume, and evidence
pointers back to the raw rows, with no model in the
loop, so the output is byte-identical, cacheable, and
mechanically auditable. On one professional’s single-user
corpus of128,756frames over51active days, the compiler
reduces a day of raw capture to a prompt-ready context
block86× smaller in68ms, and an agent reading that
block answers questions about the day at98.4%accuracy
(Wilson95%CI91 .7–99.7%) against an independent
oracle, versus66–80%for an LLM summary of the same
capture, a mid-tier model reading the block matching a
frontier one.
The same compiler doubles as a demand-side cost in-
strument. Read off passive, pre-delegation human activ-
ity rather than agent rollouts, it supplies two parameters
that agent-cost models assume but, to our knowledge,
have not measured: the Routine Overhead RatioR and
the routine recurrence h. We report first values ofR,
a modeled upper bound, at60–343×, and a delegable
recurrence of9 .0%in-sample and7 .7%out-of-sample,
for a realistic all-fleet token ceiling near8%; a compiled
routine replays deterministically with the model out of
the loop, demonstrated live at zero model tokens on a
guard-matched hit. Schema, compiler, and evaluation
harness are open.
Keywords:LLM agents, episodic memory, agent cost,
routine replay, computer-use agents, screen capture,
Model Context Protocol
1 Introduction
An LLM agent asked “what should I prioritize today?”
answers from what it can see: the conversation, some
files, perhaps a calendar. It cannot see that its user spent
∗Independent Researcher. Correspondence to
nossa.iyamu1@gmail.com.
the morning inside a pull request, switched contexts
forty times after lunch, or abandoned a draft email at
16:40. Position work has argued that episodic memory,
a record of experience situated in time, is the missing
piece for long-term LLM agents [1], and surveys of agent
externalization treat memory as a first-class architectural
concern [2]. Yet in practice, agent memory today means
conversation memory: what the user told the model, not
what the user did [3–5].
The raw material for behavioral episodic memory al-
ready exists. Automated time trackers have recorded
application focus for a decade [6]; operating systems now
ship continuous capture, with Microsoft Recall storing
periodic snapshots on Copilot+ PCs [7]; and OpenAI’s
Chronicle preview builds memories from recent screen
content for its Codex assistant [8]. Capture, in other
words, is commodity. Consumption is not. A day of
event-driven capture on our corpus yields roughly two
thousand snapshot rows, each one asserting only that
at time t, application a displayed window w at URL
u. Two consumption strategies dominate. Raw search
hands the agent a flat result list and leaves sessionization,
deduplication, and duration accounting to the model at
inference time; we measure this cost at 126,812 tokens for
a single day (Section 6). LLM summarization compresses
well but imports the weaknesses of its summarizer: per-
run cost, non-determinism, degraded reliability over long
inputs [9], and the possibility of inventing activity that
never happened. Neither yields memory an agent can
cache, audit, or trust.
This paper proposes the missing middle:determin-
istic compilation. In the same way a compiler turns
instructions into structured artifacts without opinion,
we turn snapshot streams intoactivity frames: bounded
episodes with an application and site, a start and end,
dwell-based active time, typed page references, input
volume, and evidence pointers back to the raw rows. No
model participates. The same database and window al-
ways produce the same document, so episodic memory
becomes free to rebuild, safe to cache, and mechanically
auditable. Interpretation is not banned but quarantined:
a second schema tier accepts inferred labels only when
they are namespaced, confidence-tagged, and linked to
the measured evidence that supports them.
Our contributions are:
1
arXiv:2608.05784v1  [cs.AI]  6 Aug 2026
• A two-tier schemafor representing human com-
puter activity to agents, separating measured fact from
tagged inference, with coverage gaps and blind spots
as mandatory document elements (Section 3).
• Deterministic compilation rules(dwell crediting,
session gaps, flicker merging, nearest-frame attribution,
coordinate-based click resolution, total URL-to-entity
typing) that require no learned components (Section 4).
• Anopenreferenceimplementation: adependency-
free Python compiler with a provisioned local capture
engine, a CLI, and a Model Context Protocol (MCP)
server exposing six tools to any MCP-capable agent
[10,11] (Section 5).
• An empirical characterizationon a 61-day live
corpus: token cost against raw rows (86× reduction
for prompt-ready context), 68ms full-day compilation,
byte-identical reproducibility, entity-typing coverage,
and a duration distribution that separates genuine
short attention bouts from single-snapshot transits
and multi-monitor effects (Section 6).
• A downstream question-answering benchmark
against an independent oracle, run at two model tiers,
showing that an agent answers more accurately from
the compiled block than from raw rows or an LLM
summary of the same capture at both tiers, that the
block lets a mid-tier model match a frontier one, and
that a stronger model narrows but does not close the
gap; the harness is released for rerunning against any
model (Section 6.2).
• A demand-side cost instrument: an open, deter-
ministic measurement of the Routine Overhead Ratio
R (modeled numerator, measured denominator) and
desktop routine recurrenceh, read from passively cap-
tured human activity rather than agent rollouts, with
a parametric replay executor and a first live proof-of-
concept, reported on one user’s corpus (Sections 7–7.4).
2 Related Work
2.1 Memory Systems for LLM Agents
MemGPT virtualizes context OS-style, paging conversa-
tion history through a bounded window [3]; production
layers consolidate salient facts from dialogue [4]; Zep orga-
nizes memory as a temporal knowledge graph [5]; E-mem
reconstructs episodic context from execution traces [12];
and hierarchical procedural memory distills skills from
agent trajectories [13], threads a recent review unifies
as externalization [2]. All ingest what flowedthrough
the agent, messages, tool calls, task traces, and memory-
construction studies show that granularity and structure
affect retrieval quality [14], supporting typed episodes
over flat logs. Agent Workflow Memory induces rou-
tines too, but from agent rollouts rather than human
activity [15].
2.2 Screen Capture as Agent Memory
A 2025–2026 wave targets our exact goal by the oppo-
site method. MIRIX runs a multi-agent memory system
over continuous screenshots with cloud model calls [16];
FOCAL invokes a local vision-language model to write
session summaries from on-device capture, reporting a
60% token cut [17]; ProAgentBench segments 500+ hours
of capture on application switches before model-based
annotation [18]; SummAct summarizes interaction traces
into intentions with an LLM [19]; and OmniQuery aug-
ments captured personal media for QA [20]. In every
case a model sits inside the memory-construction loop, so
the memory inherits per-run cost, non-determinism, and
possible hallucinated episodes. Activity frames are the
deterministic counterpoint: no model in the compile path,
byte-identical output, and interpretation quarantined in
a separate evidence-linked tier, the first deterministic
desktop instantiation of the acquisition layer episodic-
memory advocates call missing [1].
2.3 Desktop Activity, GUI Agents, and
Memory Trust
Deriving task structure from interaction logs is a two-
decade ambition: TaskTracer tied window, file, and clip-
board events to declared tasks [21], and SWISH clustered
windows into tasks from titles and switching [22]. Inter-
ruption science established the fragmentation our com-
piler measures, three-minute working spheres [23] and
content switching about every 19s with 75% of segments
under a minute [24]; these are behavioral rates from their
instruments, and our comparable figure is the post-transit
median frame of0.9min (Section 6), not our6.1s median
inter-capture gap, which is recorder cadence rather than
a human switching rate. Methodologically our pipeline
descends from lifelogging’s threshold segmentation [25],
whose critique that unstructured total capture serves no-
body [26] is the failure mode we exist to prevent, plus web
sessionization’s inactivity timeouts [27], process-mining
event abstraction [28], robotic process mining’s UI-log
routine identification [29], and the data-to-text faithful-
ness tradition [30]; but those pipelines end in process
models or prose for humans, ours in typed memory for an
agent. Separately, a large body gives agents screens as an
actionsurface, GUI-agentsurveyscatalogingaccessibility-
tree, OCR, and vision perception [31,32], and generative
agents showing a remembered observation stream enables
long-horizon behavior [33]; we compile the inverse, what
the human did, an acquisition problem personal-agent
surveys call open [34]. Deployed capture leaves the same
gap: ActivityWatch is content-blind [6], Recall exposes
snapshots to the user but no agent API [7], Chronicle
2
feeds one walled assistant [8]. Finally, agent memory
is now an attack surface, memories poisoned to steer
behavior [35] or probed by membership inference [36],
motivating two properties we make structural: evidence
pointers back to raw rows, and a hard measured/inferred
boundary, so a poisoned or hallucinated label cannot pass
as fact. Context-engineering and long-context degrada-
tion results both argue for compact structured context
over raw dumps [9,37].
2.4 Agent Skills, Trajectories, and Cost
Three adjacent lines each need one of our parameters
but source it differently.Skill inductionturns an agent’s
own successful trajectories into reusable skills: Agent
Workflow Memory from web rollouts [15], SkillWeaver
from self-execution [38], Agent Skill Induction as pro-
grams [39], and PreAct as continual self-improvement [40].
All read thesupplyside, what an agent did while acting,
and so observe a routine only after an agent has already
performed it at full cost, and only for tasks it can com-
plete.Trajectory-acquisitionchannels manufacture train-
ing data and report a price: Explorer at≈$0.28each [41],
AgentTrek at≈$0.55[42], and Watch&Learn [43] and
cotomi Act [44] at low marginal cost; but a synthesized
trajectory exists only where the generator can drive the
task to success, so authenticated, private-state routines
are systematically under-covered, and Agent Data Proto-
col’s channel taxonomy [45] omits both passive capture
and a price column.Cost frameworksprice the rest:
FrugalGPT for model cascades [46], Cost-of-Pass for ex-
pected cost per success [47], AI Agents That Matter
for cost as a first-class axis [48], and the Holistic Agent
Leaderboardforrealrollouteconomics( ≈$1.84/task)[49].
Together they supply an amortized per-task cost of a
memory-backed agent, which we adopt as a cited frame,
not a contribution:
E[$/task] = (1−hq) Cmiss
p +hq(C hit+Cverify)
+h(1−q)C wrong + Cwrite
N ,
(1)
where h is recurrence, q the fraction of hits correctly
matched, p the base success rate, N the reuse count,
and the C-terms per-branch costs. Every term is al-
ready priced in the works above; the one input none of
them measures ish on thepre-delegationpassive corpus.
Rollout-priced leaderboards observe the hit rate of tasks
an agent was given and completed, a survivorship-biased
quantity; the demand-sideh, how often the user’s real
work repeats whether or not an agent could do it, is
what our instrument supplies, and R replaces the as-
sumed Cmiss/Chit ratio with a measured one. Activity
frames are thus the pre-delegation, demand-side instru-
ment that skill induction, acquisition channels, and cost
leaderboards each presuppose but none provides.
local machine; nothing leaves by default
capture engine
screen, a11y tree,
input events (SQLite)
compiler
sessionize, enrich,
entity typing
agent
MCP tools,
context blocks
tier 2: inferred
namespaced, confidence-
tagged, evidence-linked
read-only tier 1
optional
Figure 1: The two-tier architecture. The measured tier
(blue) is produced entirely by deterministic code read-
ing the capture database. Interpretation (orange) is an
optional extension that must be namespaced, confidence-
tagged, and evidence-linked; stripping it always leaves a
valid measured document.
3 The Activity Frames Schema
3.1 Design Principles
Four principles fix the schema’s character.Measured,
not guessed: every field in a standard document is
derivable by deterministic code from capture data; there
are no intent labels, because code cannot observe intent.
Reproducible: identical inputs must yield identical
documents, making memory cacheable and diffable.Ev-
idenced: every frame carries pointers to the raw rows
it was compiled from.Honest about absence: pe-
riods without capture are reported as gaps, and every
document carries a blind_spots list stating what the
pipeline systematically cannot see. Consumers must treat
uncovered time as unknown, never as inactivity.
3.2 Document Structure
A document describes one query window and contains
four parts: a coverage section (first and last activity,
active minutes, span, capture gaps over five minutes),
a chronological list offrames, a blind_spots list, and
provenance metadata (schema_version, generation time,
source recorder). A frame is one bounded stretch of at-
tention in a single context, keyed by the pair (application,
site), where site is the URL host for browser activity and
absent otherwise. Figure 2 shows a representative frame.
3.3 Typed Page References
Browser frames carry pages: typed references pro-
duced by deterministic URL parsing. A reference has
a kind (what sort of page), an optional entity (the
human-relevant identifier), and a view count. Stan-
dard kinds includeprofile, company, people_search,
search, repo, pull_request, issue, doc, email, video,
post, ai_chat, and local_dev. The mapping is total:
a URL matched by no site parser falls back to a generic
page reference with its domain, so typing never loses
data. Kinds are open for extension but must remain
deterministic functions of the URL.
3
- id: f-0007
app: "Google Chrome"
site: "linkedin.com"
start: "20:24:04" end: "20:42:11"
duration_min: 18.0 wall_min: 21.5
pages:
- {kind: people_search, entity: "cto paris",
count: 2}
- {kind: profile, entity: "jane-doe"}
- {kind: company, entity: "acme"}
input: {keys: 214, clicks: 31}
interruptions: [{app: "Slack", seconds: 12}]
evidence: {frame_ids: "99871..100147"}
Figure 2: A single activity frame (YAML, entities
anonymized). Every field is computed by code; the ev-
idence pointer names the raw snapshot rows the frame
was compiled from.
3.4 Tier 2: The Inferred Extension
Tools may add interpretation, such as task labels or
project clusters, under three schema-enforced rules: in-
ferred content lives in a namespacedinferred block,
carries a confidence tag drawn from {high, medium,
speculative}, and names itsevidence: the measured
fields or raw rows supporting it. A consumer can always
strip the inferred block and be left with a purely mea-
sured document. The reference implementation emits
tier 1 only; we consider the boundary itself, not any
particular inference method, to be the contribution.
3.5 Privacy Rule
Inputvolume(keystroke, click, and copy counts) is part
of the standard document. Inputcontent(typed text)
must be excluded by default and included only on an
explicit operator opt-in. This is a schema requirement,
not an implementation courtesy: a conforming producer
cannot silently emit content.
4 Deterministic Compilation
4.1 Setting
The capture engine is event-driven with a heartbeat:
it stores a snapshot row on interaction and on screen
change (clicks, application switches, visual changes), plus
a periodic row after roughly 30 seconds without input.
Heartbeat rows are 19% of our corpus; they matter be-
cause they keep the stream alive while the user reads,
watches, or steps away from an awake display, and every
downstream time measure inherits that. Each monitor
records its own stream; within a stream the median
inter-frame gap is 6.1s and the 90th percentile is 30.7s
(Section 6). A row carries a timestamp, application,
window title, and URL when the focused application is
a browser. Input events (keystrokes, clicks, clipboard,
time
A (linkedin.com)
B 12s
A cont.
flicker merged
gap 41 min (reported)
C (github.com)
∆t=104s⇒creditmin(∆t,90s)
Figure 3: Segmentation on one timeline. Ticks are snap-
shot rows. A 12-second detour (B) folds into the sur-
rounding frame as a recorded interruption; a long silence
becomes a reported coverage gap; sparse snapshots earn
at most the 90s dwell cap.
application switches) arrive in a parallel stream. Com-
pilation consumes these streams for a query window,
segmenting each monitor independently, and emits the
document of Section 3.
4.2 Sessionization
Three constants govern segmentation, chosen from the
capture cadence rather than tuned on outcomes.Dwell:
a frame contributesmin(∆t, 90 s)of active time, where
∆t is the gap to the next frame in its monitor’s stream.
Because the engine emits a∼30s heartbeat during input-
free stretches, dwell measuresscreen tenure: how long
a context stayed frontmost on an awake display. That
includes reading and watching, which produce no input,
but also stretches where the user has stepped away while
the display stays on; Section 8 quantifies this. The cap,
roughly three heartbeat periods, bounds the credit a
single frame can earn when capture stalls or the display
sleeps; it does not, and cannot, distinguish attention
from presence. Consumers who need interaction-gated
time can compare each frame’s reported input volume
against its duration. Segmentation runs per monitor, so
a context visible on two monitors at once earns tenure
on both; the schema discloses this as a blind spot and
Section 6.2 shows the consequence.Session gap: a
gap above 300s closes the current frame and becomes
a candidate coverage gap; no dwell is credited across
it.Flicker merge: the pattern A→B→A , where
B lasts at most 20s of wall time and no session gap
intervenes, collapses into a singleA frame. Crucially, B
is not discarded: it is recorded on the merged frame as an
interruption with its measured seconds, and its time
isnotadded to A’s active duration. Nothing is hidden
and nothing is double-counted. Algorithm 1 summarizes
the procedure; Figure 3 illustrates all three rules on one
timeline.
4.3 Enrichment
Raw input events have three reliability defects that code
can repair. First,stale attribution: the recorder some-
times tags an event with the previously focused applica-
tion. Each event is therefore re-attributed to the tem-
porally nearest snapshot (binary search over the frame
4
Algorithm 1Frame segmentation (one pass, then flicker
merge)
Require: snapshots f1 . . . fn of one monitor’s stream,
sorted by time; constantsD=90, G=300, F= 20(sec-
onds)
1:S←[];cur←⊥
2:fori= 1tondo
3:k i←(app(f i),site(f i));∆←t(f i+1)−t(f i)
4:ifcur=⊥ork i̸= key(cur)then
5:append new segmentcurwith keyk i toS
6:end if
7:extendcurwithf i
8:if∆≤Gthen
9:active(cur) += min(∆, D)
10:else
11:cur←⊥{session break; candidate gap}
12:end if
13:end for
14: forconsecutive A, B, A′ in S with key(A)=key(A′)
do
15: if wall(B)≤F andno session break around B
then
16: merge A′ into A; record B as interruption ofA
17:end if
18:end for
19:returnS
stream), whose application, window, and URL are author-
itative; the attribution distance is kept in milliseconds
so downstream consumers can judge it. Second,anony-
mous clicks: many click events carry coordinates but
no element name. We resolve them against the snap-
shot’s recorded element tree: exact containment first
(smallest containing element wins), then a±40px tol-
erance ring, then a coarse screen-zone fallback; every
resolution is tagged exact, tolerance, or zone, and
unresolvable clicks stay unresolved rather than being
guessed. Third,keyboard-layout mismatch: some
capture stacks record physical key positions decoded as
QWERTY while the user types another layout. An ex-
plicit, operator-supplied translation map repairs this; it
is identity by default and never inferred.
4.4 Entity Typing
Site parsers map URLs to the typed references of Sec-
tion 3: path and query parsing only, no fetching, no
models. Resolution proceeds in layers: a bespoke parser
for the host (the reference implementation ships more
than twenty, covering professional networks, code host-
ing, search, documents, mail, maps, video, social, events,
dashboards, AI chat, and local development), then a
generic search-parameter detector, then a subdomain-
and-path heuristic that types common infrastructure
pages (sign-in, dashboard, email, calendar, meeting) even
for sites without a bespoke parser, and finally a total
Table 1: MCP tool surface of the reference implementa-
tion.
T ool Returns
get_context Compact chronological context block for
the last N hours, sized for inclusion in a
system prompt
get_activity Full schema-v1 document (JSON) for a
day or window
get_day_summary Coverage plus per-app ledger (minutes,
sessions, longest session)
get_patterns Repetitive workflows over the lastN days
get_communications Email/messaging surfaces with the win-
dow titles seen on each (measured tier;
titles only)
get_stepsOrdered click-by-click script behind one
activity frame, for replay
fallback that guarantees every URL maps to something.
Because every layer is a pure function of the URL, adding
coverage is a contribution reviewable line by line.
5 Reference Implementation
The reference implementation [10] is a Python package
(MIT license) with three parts. Thecapture engineis
provisioned on demand byaframes record : a pinned,
MIT-licensed, open-source build that records applica-
tion focus, window titles, URLs, the accessibility tree,
and input events into a local SQLite database, entirely
on-device, with audio capture off by default. Operators
already running a compatible recorder can skip it and
point the compiler at any existing database. Thecom-
pilerhas zero runtime dependencies, opens the database
read-only, and exposes the document builders plus emit-
ters for JSON, YAML, Markdown, and a compact plain-
text context block designed for system prompts. The
MCP server[11] is a hand-rolled stdio JSON-RPC
implementation, also dependency-free, exposing the six
tools of Table 1 to any MCP client. A workflow-pattern
detector (repeated clicks, URL loops, action sequences,
application-switching habits, daily habits) rounds out
the surface.
6 Empirical Characterization
We characterize the system on the author’s own live cor-
pus: 61 calendar days of capture (46 days with activity)
comprising 109,735 snapshot rows, 214,360 input events,
and 8.4M element-tree rows across 54 applications (Ta-
ble 2). The corpus is frozen: the recorder was migrated
to a new database after the last captured day, so every
number below is reproducible against an immutable file.
The paper reads from this corpus at two freezes, labeled
where used: this systems half uses the 2026-07-10 freeze
(61 calendar / 46 active days, 109,735 frames), while the
overhead measurements of Section 7 use a later 2026-
07-22 freeze (51 active days, 128,756 frames). This is a
single-user corpus; we report it as a characterization of
5
Table 2: Live capture corpus used throughout Section 6.
Calendar span 61 days
Days with activity 46
Snapshot rows (frames) 109,735
with URL 59,458
idle-heartbeat rows 20,429 (19%)
Input events 214,360
Element-tree rows 8,395,885
Median intra-monitor gap 6.1s
90th-percentile gap 30.7s
Distinct applications 54
raw rows frames JSON context block
103
104
105
126,812
34,815
1,469
tokens (log)
Figure 4: Token cost of one full day under three rep-
resentations (cl100k_base). Deterministic compilation
yields an 86× reduction for prompt-ready context, at
zero inference cost.
the mechanism, not a user study (Section 8).
6.1 Token Cost
For one representative full day (2,066 snapshot rows),
we compare three representations an agent could receive,
tokenized with thecl100k_baseencoding. The raw rows,
serialized as the JSON a search API would return, cost
126,812 tokens. The compiled schema-v1 document (222
frames at a 0.5-minute floor) costs 34,815 tokens, a 3.6×
reduction that also relieves the agent of segmentation
work. The compact context block costs 1,469 tokens, an
86× reduction, small enough to include in every system
prompt (Figure 4). Both compiled forms are produced
without any model call, so the reduction is free, and
long-context results suggest the smaller representation is
not merely cheaper but better used by the model [9].
6.2 Downstream Question Answering
Token cost is a means; the end is whether an agent can
answer questions about the user’s day. We test this di-
rectly. We evaluate on eight days chosen by a fixed rule:
the seven most recent consecutive active days plus the
nearest preceding day whose raw serialization overflows
the model’s context window (included to exercise that
regime). For each day, ground-truth answers are com-
puted by anindependentSQL oracle over the raw tables:
a documented inactivity-timeout dwell (credit each frame
the gap to the next, capped at60s), deliberately not the
activity-frames compiler, so the reference is not circular.
Oracle and compiler measure the same construct, screen
tenure: the capture heartbeat (Section 4) keeps input-
free stretches credited, so “active minutes” throughout
this section means time a context was frontmost on an
awake display, not interaction time. Every representation
is graded against that one construct, which keeps the
comparison fair, but absolute magnitudes should be read
as tenure. We validate the compiler against the oracle
before using the oracle to grade anyone. On the seven
benchmark days whose capture was complete when the
oracle was frozen, the compiler’s covered active minutes
agree with the oracle’s total dwell to a median of0.9min-
utes (all within2.3); the eighth day’s capture continued
after the freeze, so it is compared only at its snapshot.
Distinct-application counts agree exactly or within one
on every day. Two caveats keep this agreement hon-
est. First, it compares aggregates that both approximate
covered wall time, so it validates coverage rather than
per-application arithmetic. Second, the two systems in-
tentionally differ on multi-monitor days: the compiler
credits each monitor’s stream (Section 4), while the oracle
interleaves all monitors into one. On the context-overflow
day, which has133dual-monitor minutes, the dominant
application earns435 .8minutes by the compiler’s ledger
but346 .1by the oracle, a26%divergence that the grad-
ing tolerance below happens to contain; switching the
oracle’s cap from60to90s moves its day total by under
6minutes, so the divergence is the monitor convention,
not the dwell cap. We report this rather than average
over it. The generator emits 64 questions across five cat-
egories: which application dominated, how many active
minutes in it, how many distinct applications, pairwise
time ranking, whether a given domain was visited, and
starting time, plus 16absent-fact probes(“did the user
open Photoshop / visit netflix.com?”) that a faithful
system answers negatively. We deliberately exclude two
further question types. Longest-session length depends
on the session-gap convention rather than a fact, and
per-profile recall exceeds the compact block’s token bud-
get on busy days; each would penalize the compact block
for a convention or a compression choice rather than for
faithfulness, so we record the exclusion here to keep it
on the books.
Two agents at different capability tiers, Claude Son-
net 4.5 and the larger Opus 4.5, each given no tools and
answering only from the supplied text, answer every ques-
tion from each of three representations: the raw rows, an
LLM-generated summary of those rows written by that
same agent, and the activity-frames output (the deter-
ministic per-application ledger plus the compact context
block, together≈2k tokens). We note plainly that this
hands the activity-frames agent measured per-application
durations the other two must derive for themselves: that
is exactly what the compiler is for, but it means the
quantitative questions test whether the deterministic
arithmetic was already done, not only whether the agent
can read. Answers are graded against the oracle with
6
Table 3: Downstream QA across two model tiers (8 days,
64 ground-truth questions, graded against the indepen-
dent SQL oracle). “Acc.” is overall accuracy; “Dur. err.”
is the mean absolute error on the dominant application’s
active minutes. The compiled block scores identically
at both tiers, so a mid-tier model reads it as well as a
frontier one; the raw-row and summary baselines improve
with model strength but never catch it. Only the block
is deterministic across runs and fits the context window
on every day; on the busiest day the raw rows are257k
tokens, so both baselines are infeasible and report on7
of8days (the block, on all8).
Sonnet 4.5 Opus 4.5
Representation Acc. Dur. err. Acc. Dur. err.
Raw rows 82.1% 39.7% 91.1% 25.7%
LLM summary 66.1% 135.7% 80.4% 25.2%
Activity frames 98.4% 7.3% 98.4% 7.3%
fixed tolerances (numeric within30%; times within45
minutes), and the ranking does not depend on them: at
the Sonnet tier, a strict10%/15-minute band leaves the
three representations at95.3%,80 .4%, and66 .1%, and
the summary is so far off that widening the band to50%
lifts it only to67.9%. Table 3 reports both tiers at the
default tolerance.
Four findings. First,the gap is quantitative, not
categorical.At both tiers all three representations score
perfectly on the absent-fact probes: the models do not
invent applications or websites (hallucination rate0%
throughout). The summary fails instead onmagnitudes.
At the Sonnet tier it answers time questions at7.1%ac-
curacy and mis-states the dominant application’s active
minutes by135 .7%on average, against7 .3%for activity
frames (that residual is dwell-method rounding, not er-
ror). Fluent prose hides the damage: on 2026-07-05 the
measured record (the oracle, with the compiler’s ledger
agreeing) is Google Chrome first at161.6dwell minutes
and Cursor second at143.9, over a day that ran11:40to
22:26, yet a Sonnet summary of that day names Cursor
the primary application at “∼7 hours,” inflating its144
measured minutes by2.9× and fabricating a nocturnal
“6:40PM–5:26AM” session that spills into the next day.
The activity-frames agent answered160minutes. Ev-
ery day, summary, and graded answer is in the released
harness output.
Second,a stronger model narrows the gap but
does not close it, and the compiled block erases
the difference between the two.The frontier Opus
model reconstructs durations far better from prose: its
summary reaches80 .4%overall and cuts the duration er-
ror to25 .2%. But that is still3.5× the block’s7 .3%, and
reading the block the two models are indistinguishable
(98.4%each), whereas reading raw rows or a summary
the frontier model runs9to14points ahead of the mid-
tier one. The block lets the cheaper model answer as well
as the expensive one; the baselines make capability mat-
ter. The benefit of deterministic compilation is therefore
largest exactly where compute is cheapest to deploy.
Third,the summary is non-deterministic: regener-
ating it three times per day produced three distinct texts
on every day at both tiers, whereas the activity-frames
block was byte-identical across three regenerations, so
the summary’s errors are not even stable enough to cor-
rect for. Fourth,the baselines do not always run.
The busiest day serializes to257k raw tokens, exceed-
ing the context window, so both raw-row and summary
consumption are infeasible; the≈2k block is unaffected,
which is why it alone reports on all eight days. Activ-
ity frames are not flawless: their one miss (98.4%, not
100, at both tiers) is a domain-recall question on the
busiest evaluated day, where the compact block’s budget
drops a visited domain; that is the expected price of
a bounded representation, and a recall question rather
than a magnitude one. These accuracies are a single
answering pass per representation per tier, at provider
default sampling (model snapshotsclaude-sonnet-4-5
and claude-opus-4-5, temperature and seed unpinned,
so the non-deterministic baselines vary across re-runs);
we release the full harness (oracle, question generator,
and grader) so they can be repeated, with confidence
intervals and further models, on any corpus.
6.3 Latency and Reproducibility
Compiling the same full day end to end (segmentation,
enrichment-backed input accounting, entity typing, emis-
sion) takes a median of 68ms over five runs on a con-
sumer laptop (Apple Silicon), with a 65 to 72ms range.
Episodic memory at this cost can simply be rebuilt on
every query. Reproducibility holds by construction and
we verify it empirically: two independent compilations of
the same window produce byte-identical documents once
the generation timestamp is excluded. Determinism is
what makes the memory cacheable, diffable across code
versions, and testable in continuous integration.
6.4 Entity Typing Coverage
Across all 5,120 distinct URLs in the corpus, the lay-
ered parsers produce a non-generic typed reference for
81.3%, spanning 46 kinds; the remaining 18.7% fall back
to the generic page reference with domain. The most
frequent non-generic kinds areprofile (1,106 distinct
URLs), search (397), email (278), event (209), and
messaging (200), reflecting that typed coverage concen-
trates precisely on the high-signal pages an agent most
benefits from resolving. Coverage grows one pure func-
tion per site, so the long tail is closed incrementally by
contribution rather than by any learned component.
7
0-1 1-2 2-5 5-10 10-20 20-45 45+
0
0.5
1
·104
11,842
2,730
1,952
641 275 70 4
active duration (min)
frames
Figure 5: Active-duration distribution of all 17,514
frames across 43 days (per-monitor segmentation). Me-
dian 0.5min, but 52% of the sub-minute bar is single-
snapshot transits rather than attention episodes; exclud-
ing them the median is 0.9min (see text).
6.5 How Fragmented Is a Day?
Compiling the 43 days that produce compiled frames (of
the 46 with any capture in Table 2; the other three carry
only idle-heartbeat rows) yields 17,514 frames (median
361 per day) with a median active duration of 0.5 min-
utes: 68% of frames last under one minute (Figure 5).
A number this stark demands decomposition before in-
terpretation, because two mechanical effects sit inside it.
First, 52% of the sub-minute frames (6,177) contain a sin-
gle snapshot, with a median credit of 6.1 seconds: these
aretransits, the application an operator passes through
on the way somewhere else, faithfully recorded but not
attention episodes. Second, a further 20% (2,361) lie
inside dual-monitor stretches, where each monitor earns
its own stream by construction; 27% of captured minutes
on this corpus have two monitors active. Restricting
to frames with at least two snapshots, the median rises
to 0.9 minutes and 52% remain under one minute; that
residue is genuine switching. Read this way, the distri-
bution is consistent with what interruption science has
measured with dedicated instrumentation: three-minute
working spheres [23] and 75% of laptop content segments
under one minute [24]. We deliberately do not present
the raw histogram as an independent replication: an ear-
lier draft of this analysis segmented all monitors as one
interleaved stream, which shreds dual-monitor stretches
and pushed the median to 0.3 minutes, and strict seg-
mentation always overstates fragmentation until transits
are separated out. The lesson is the schema’s, not just
ours: consumers get amin_minutes floor (frames below
it are omitted with the omission disclosed, never silently
merged), the flicker-merge rule keeps sub-20-second de-
tours from shredding genuine focus blocks while still
recording them, and single-snapshot transits remain visi-
ble in the document precisely so that no compiler-side
heuristic has to decide what counts as attention.
7 The Routine Overhead Ratio
The compiler of Sections 3–5 was built to produce
episodic memory, but it is also aninstrument. Because
it reduces a recurring stretch of capture to a short, re-
playable script by deterministic code alone, it lets us
put a measured number on a quantity that agent-cost
models assume but none of them observes: how much a
computer-use agent overpays to re-derive a routine it has
already done. We call that number the Routine Overhead
Ratio R, and we report it, together with the recurrenceh
(Section 7.4), as the first readings of the two parameters
those cost models are written in. Neither R nor h is
offered as a principle; each is a measurement, taken with
an open tool on one user’s real work. The figures in this
half are read from the same single-user author corpus
characterized in Section 6, at a later freeze: Section 6’s
systems numbers use the 2026-07-10 freeze (61days,46
active,109 ,735frames), while the overhead and repro-
ducibility numbers here use the freeze extended through
2026-07-22 (51active days,128,756frames,232 ,898input
events). Between the two freezes the accessibility-tree
coverage rose from about41%to81 .5%of frames, which
strengthens the structured grounding available to replay.
7.1 Definition
Aroutineis a frequent action n-gram: a contiguous
sequence ofk UI actions (3≤k≤ 60) that recurs at least
three times within the corpus, restricted to sequences
that name at least two distinct targets. Sessions are cut
at inter-action gaps over90s. The two-named-target
restriction is declared in advance, not tuned after the
fact: without it, degenerate single-symbol repeats (a
held key, a scroll loop) would satisfy “recurs” trivially
and inflate every ratio, the granularity trap that any
repetition metric on raw input invites. It is the same
specificity that separates the delegable rateh from the
raw rate in Section 7.4.
For a routine ofk steps we compare two token costs.
The numerator ismodeled. A memoryless, screenshot-
driven agent re-derives the routine one step at a time,
and per step consumes one screenshot, a fixed context
read, and a fixed reasoning write:
Cagent(k) =k
 w h
750 + 350 + 180

,(2)
the three per-step terms being the screenshot priced
by Anthropic’s wh/750image-token rule for a w×h
capture, a350-token context read, and180tokens of
reasoning output. At a typical1512× 982capture this is
about2 ,500tokens per step (1,979image+ 350 + 180),
dominated by the screenshot. We are explicit thatCagent
is what published screenshot-driven agent loopswould
spend, computed without executing an agent, and that it
is anupper bound: it assumes a screenshot baseline with
no cross-step prompt caching, so an agent that reuses
8
context across steps or grounds on the accessibility tree
instead of a fresh screenshot spends fewer tokens per step
and R narrows accordingly. Section 8.4 reports a live in-
loop comparison against an accessibility-tree agent that
saved only≈14%, and reserves the full live three-arm
billing. The denominator ismeasured, and we report it
as aladderrather than one figure, because the compiler
can emit the routine at more than one level of detail,
each a legitimate reading ofCreplay(k):
R= Cagent(k)
Creplay(k) , C replay(k) =
tiktoken(·)
.(3)
The compiler emits both rungs deterministically, with no
model in the loop (compile_replay.py, released with
the reference implementation [10]); tokens are counted
with tiktokenunder cl100k_base, thepaper’sencoding.
Theoperationalrung is the fullguarded skill plan: a per-
step sequence of typed actions, each carrying an expected-
element, expected-role, and expected-application guard
so replay can fail safe. Across the20most frequent action
routines these plans have a median of247.5tokens and
compile in a median of0.5ms at zero token cost, the com-
piler being CPU-only. Theceilingrung is theminimal
replay scriptthat strips the guards to the routine’s bare
information content: a median of40tokens for a median
5-step routine, about8tokens per step. The guarded
plan is roughly six times larger, which is precisely why it
yields the smaller, more defensible ratio we lead with.
7.2 The Ladder, and Its Distribution
We lead with theconservative operationalnumber and
keep the larger one as a ceiling, because leading with the
ceiling would invite a cherry-picking objection. Against
the guarded skill plan the compiler actually emits, the
median is Rinject = 60× (interquartile59–62across
the20compiled plans): injecting the compiled routine
costs about one-sixtieth of re-deriving it from screen-
shots. Against the minimal script, the median reaches
the information-content ceilingRinfo = 343× at action
granularity, the largest ratio the routine’s bare descrip-
tion length can justify. Table 4 reports both rungs and,
for Rinfo, the full distribution over routines. The ceiling
is robust to the two knobs most likely to be accused of
driving it: it rises monotonically but mildly with routine
length (median301× at k=3–4,358× at k=5–8,405× at
k=9–15,401× at k≥16), and re-pricing the numerator at
three screen configurations moves it only within a259×
(conservative1280× 800) to425× (retina1728 × 1117)
band, so it is an artifact of neither short routines nor
one display. At URL granularity the ceiling median is
198×. The most frequent action routine (a three-step
compose-message loop,181occurrences) and the most
frequent URL routine (a mail-calendar-mail triangle,25
occurrences) are the mundane recurrences one would
expect of real desk work, not exotic macros. We note
the concentration plainly: the20action routines behind
Table 4: The denominator ladder forR = Cagent/Creplay
(numerator modeled; denominators measured with
cl100k_base). Rinject (operational) uses the guarded
skill plan the compiler emits;Rinfo (ceiling) uses the min-
imal replay script. Rinject is computed on the20most
frequent action routines, so it carries no URL column.
Rinfo medians are priced at a typical1512× 982screen;
the resolution band re-prices the numerator at a conser-
vative and a retina capture.
Action URL
Recurring routines 614 261
Routine instances 5,508 1,303
Rinject (guarded plan, operational) 60×n/a
IQR / median plan tokens 59–62×/ 248 n/a
Compile costB0.5ms,0tokens
Rinfo (minimal script, ceiling) 343×198×
Interquartile range 297–390×165–228×
Recurrence-weighted mean 337×194×
Min–max 167–509×67–301×
Across screen resolutions 259–425×150–245×
Median script tokens 40 43
Median stepsk/ max occ. 5 / 181 3 / 25
Rinject are dominated by two families, a compose-message
loop and a window-close loop, sliced at several lengths
by the n-gram miner, soRinject characterizes this user’s
highest-frequency micro-routines rather than a diverse
cross-application task set; Section 8.4 bounds the gener-
alization.
7.3 Recovery, and a Modeled Three-Arm
Comparison
The recovery a hit yields depends on which rung of the
ladder is used, and we attach the largest claim to the
narrowest case. On a guard-matched step, deterministic
localreplay —parametric routine replay: the routine’s
compiled structure replays deterministically while its
variable slots carry the request’s new values, so the agent
picks the routine and fills the slots but never re-derives
the steps — takes the model out of the loop entirely, so
it recovers
1− 1
R ≈99%(4)
of that step’s re-derivation cost (exactly99.7%at the
median ceiling Rinfo = 343). That99%is a per-covered-
step ceiling, not a fleet saving: local replay reaches it only
on the fraction of steps the compiler can guard, whose
measured median is0.415, and it is exposed to interface
drift that a live run must confirm (Section 8.4).
A modeled three-arm comparison makes the gap be-
tween ceiling and realized saving concrete. We price three
ways of executing the20recurring routines at Sonnet-
class list rates ($3/$15 per Mtok, output fraction0.07),
modeled from measured artifacts and token counts, not
billed: arm A, a memoryless agent that re-derives each
routine; arm B, an agent given the compiled plan once
9
and then acting with it in context; and arm C, determin-
istic local replay. Relative to arm A (32.8Mtok, $125.81
over the fleet), injecting the plan (arm B) saves83.3%
of tokens ($20.96, a6.0× per-occurrence reduction), and
local replay (arm C) saves40.8%($74.46,1 .7×). Two
honesty notes. Arm B’s modeled saving assumes the
screenshot baseline of Eq. 2; the one live in-loop compar-
ison we have, against an accessibility-tree agent, saved
only≈14%(Section 8.4), so read83 .3%as a modeled
upper bound, not a measured in-loop figure. Arm C
falls well short of the99%ceiling for a structural rea-
son: it credits only the guard-matched fraction, so the
complementary1 − 0.415deopt fraction still pays full
arm-A price. The live-billed version of this table, with
real usage JSON, is reserved (Section 8.4); we present it
as modeled.
Acrossallaction steps rather than the recurring sub-
set, the reachable saving is smaller still, because only a
fraction h of steps sit in a delegable routine. The hon-
est all-fleet ceiling ish (1− 1/Rinfo): with the in-sample
delegable rate h = 9.0%it is≈ 9.0%, and with the con-
servative out-of-sample rateh = 7.7%(Section 7.4) it is
≈ 7.7%. Three disciplines keep every figure here honest.
First, no rung ofR is ever multiplied by the86× con-
text compression of Section 6: those are different tokens
(reading a day versus re-deriving a routine), and stack-
ing them would double-count the same work. Second,
R is never combined with prompt-cache or KV-cache
discounts; caching and replay are alternative recoveries
of the same repetition, not additive ones. Third, both
the numerator and the three-arm dollars are modeled, so
we report them as ceilings and reserve the live billing.
7.4 Desktop Routine Recurrenceh
The ratio R prices a single hit; the recurrenceh is how
often hits occur, measured as the fraction of action steps
that fall inside a recurring routine. A single number
would mislead, so we reporth at two levels. Therawrate
is hraw = 83.1%: the fraction of action steps insideany
recurring n-gram. Thisisdominatedbythegenericmicro-
structure of input, the type-a-character, return-to-field,
type-again texture that repeats constantly and carries
no reusable work. Thedelegablerate is hspecific = 9.0%
at action granularity (13.1%at URL granularity): the
fraction of steps inside the≥ 2-named-target routines of
Section 7, that is, inside an identifiable, repeatable task.
We report the gap83.1%→ 9.0%openly rather than
quoting the larger figure: it is the difference between “the
keyboard repeats” and “the work repeats,” and only the
latter is a candidate for delegation.
A temporal holdout (the single predictive claim)
A within-sample recurrence rate is partly circular, since a
routine is counted as recurring in part because we already
watched it recur. To obtain a non-circular value we fit
the routine table on the first40active days (4,847routine
signatures) and then ask what fraction of action steps
on the held-out final11days fall into a routinealready
knownfrom the training window. The out-of-sample
predicted hit rate is7.7%, against an in-sample8.6%on
the training days themselves. The modest8.6%→ 7.7%
drop is the within-user temporal-drift gap (a same-user,
later-in-time split, not a cross-population holdout), and
7.7%is the recurrence the cost accounting should carry;
the all-fleet ceilingh (1− 1/Rinfo)≈ 7.7%follows from
it. We make exactly one predictive claim, and this is it.
What h is notWeb-era studies of page revisitation
report far larger constants, on the order of40to58%
of page visits being revisits [50,51]. We do not claim
those as h. A page revisit is not a delegable task: back-
button noise, re-checking a feed, and reopening a tab are
revisits with no reusable work content, and importing
that number would overstateh by roughly an order of
magnitude. Our h measures recurringtaskstructure in
real desktop work, and on this corpus that quantity is
≈ 0.08–0.13, not≈ 0.5. Reporting the smaller, honest
figure is the point of the specificity rule.
7.5 Reproducibility as a Certified Prop-
erty
Because compilation contains no model, reproducibil-
ity is not a behavior we hope for but a property we
can certify. A certification harness (certify_ivm.py,
released with the code [10]) checks three conditions
over the51-active-day corpus and returnspass. First,
byte-identical output: re-compiling any day twice
yields byte-identical documents once the single emission-
metadata field generated_at (a wall-clock stamp of the
run) is excluded. We name that exclusion rather than
quietly canonicalizing it away; it is the one field that is
not a function of the capture. Second,rebuild equals
incremental: rebuilding the entire history from scratch
produces the same bytes as compiling day-by-day, and
earlier days are never rewritten by later capture (append-
only). Third,compile cost does not grow with
history: the median full-day compile across the run is
220.9ms, and the mean over the second half of the corpus
is0 .86× the mean over the first half (216.4ms versus
251.8ms), so per-day cost tracks the size of the day’s
delta, not the length of accumulated history; it isO(|∆|).
(The68ms of Section 6 is one representative lighter day;
the certification spans light and heavy days, from0.1to
930ms.)
We claim exactly one thing from this, and concede
its lineage. The claim is a CI-checkable byte-equality
contract on a stateless projection of an append-only
capture log. We claimnonovelty in incremental view
maintenance: deterministic, incrementally maintainable
views over append-only logs are a mature area, with
DBSP giving automatic incremental view maintenance
for rich query languages [52], and event-sourcing long
10
rebuilding state as a fold over an immutable event log.
Our contribution is not the mechanism but itsuse as
a certified guarantee for agent memory: an episodic-
memory artifact whose equality across runs, across code
versions, and across rebuild strategies is enforced by a
test, which is what makes the memory safe to cache and
mechanically auditable in the sense Section 8 requires.
8 Privacy, Trust, and Limitations
8.1 Privacy Model
The entire pipeline is local: capture, storage, and compi-
lation happen on the user’s machine, the compiler opens
the capture database read-only, and nothing is transmit-
ted anywhere by the system itself. The operator chooses
what leaves, and when, by handing a compiled artifact to
an agent. The schema-level content rule (Section 3) keeps
typed text out of documents by default; audio capture
is off by default in the provisioned engine. Compilation
itself involves no model of any kind; the capture engine
does run on-device OCR to read screen content, but
that output never leaves the machine, and no language
model, local or remote, participates in producing memory.
The capture database itself remains sensitive at rest, as
membership-inference work on memory stores reminds
us [36]; we treat device-level encryption as the appro-
priate control and note that this risk is shared by every
capture system rather than introduced by compilation.
8.2 Trust Properties
Two structural properties address emerging attacks on
agent memory. Evidence pointers make every episode
mechanically auditable: a verifier can re-read the named
raw rows and recompute the frame, which raises the bar
for poisoning attacks that rely on unverifiable memo-
ries [35]. The measured/inferred boundary ensures that
even a compromised or careless tier-2 tool cannot inject
interpretation disguised as observation; consumers can
always strip to the measured core. We do not claim
these properties defeat a compromised capture engine,
which can fabricate raw rows; provenance begins at the
database.
8.3 Limitations
Four limitations bound our claims. First, the empirical
characterization is a single-user corpus (one professional,
one machine, 61 days); cadence, fragmentation, and en-
tity coverage will differ across roles and platforms, and a
multi-user study is future work. Second, the reference im-
plementation reads one capture engine’s database layout;
the schema is engine-agnostic but each new source needs
an adapter. Third, the measured tier is structurally silent
on intent: it reports two profile views and a people search,
never “prospecting,” and consumers who need intent must
add tier-2 inference and accept its tags. Fourth, screen
presence is an imperfect proxy for attention, and on this
corpus the gap is quantifiable rather than hypothetical.
The capture heartbeat keeps input-free stretches credited:
intervals that terminate in a heartbeat row carry 45%
of all credited active time, and uninterrupted heartbeat
runs reach 42 minutes, so dwell includes reading and
watching but also time the user had stepped away from
an awake display. The dwell cap does not bound this; it
only bounds credit across capture stalls and display sleep.
Frames report input volume precisely so consumers can
gate on interaction, and a tier-2 tool may label presence-
only stretches, but the measured tier reports tenure, not
attention, and consumers must read it that way. Mon-
itors compound the proxy error in the other direction:
each records its own stream, so a minute with two active
monitors earns credit twice in per-application ledgers
(27% of captured minutes here; Section 6.2). Off-screen
work (paper, phone, conversation) appears only as gaps.
Relatedly, frames measure attention episodes, not tasks:
interruptionresearchshowsinterruptedtasksareresumed
across much longer horizons than any single frame [23],
so task-level structure belongs to tier-2 inference. Fi-
nally, the downstream benchmark (Section 6.2) evaluates
two agent tiers (Claude Sonnet 4.5 and Opus 4.5) on
this single-user corpus with one answering pass each. A
stronger model narrows the summary’s gap, so the mag-
nitude of the effect is not model-independent; but the
block’s determinism, its context-fit, and its being read
equally well by both tiers are structural properties no
model strength supplies, and we release the harness so
the comparison can be rerun with confidence intervals,
against other model families such as GPT and Gemini,
and, as multi-user capture becomes available, other users.
8.4 Limitations of the Overhead Mea-
surements
Five limitations bound the results of this half of the
paper, beyond the systems limitations already stated in
Section 8.
Single user.Every number in Section 7 comes from
one user’s machine, the author’s, over51active days
(128,756frames). We state this plainly: R and h are
properties of this person’s work, not of a population. The
specificity rule and the temporal holdout guard against
granularity and circularity artifacts, but not against hav-
ing sampled one professional on one platform. A multi-
user replication, and a public-dataset second subject, are
the obvious next step and are not claimed here.
The numerator and the three-arm dollars are
modeled, not billed. R’s numerator (Eq. 2) is what
a memoryless screenshot-driven loop would spend un-
der the Anthropic image-token rule and fixed per-step
budgets, priced without running an agent, and the three-
arm comparison of Section 7 is likewise modeled from
measured artifacts (compiled plans, token counts, guard
11
coverage) at list prices, not billed. The denominators
themselves are real: the guarded plan and the minimal
script are emitted and tokenized deterministically, and
the median guard coverage of0.415that bounds local
replay (arm C) is measured, not assumed. Since the
freeze, one owner-authorized live execution has been run,
and we report it as a first confirmation of the replay side.
A compiled two-step routine (open a compose surface,
type a draft; nothing was ever posted) was matched to
a natural-language request by a smalllocalmodel (a
Tier-2 retrieval step we do not count in the execution
total) and then executed in a live, authenticated browser
session by the released executor: both steps grounded
by accessibility role+name,zeromodel tokensat execu-
tion, a few seconds of wall-clock. The element references
differed between two runs of the same plan and name-
based grounding adapted; on a wrong page the same
plan grounded nothing and performed zero actions, the
intended fail-safe. The accessibility snapshots an in-loop
agent would read to choose each action measured≈10.5k
tokens per step on the same pages; a separate live compar-
ison that kept the modelinthe loop with the compiled
plan as context saved only≈14%against an accessibility-
driven agent, so the large ratios of Section 7 require the
model fully out of the loop, which parametric replay is.
Three bounds on this confirmation: it is one two-step
routine; its plan was seeded from live accessibility names
standing in for a mined routine (click-level grounding of
the recorder is still under validation); and the guard-miss
deopt path was not exercised. The full live three-arm
billing with real usage JSON remains reserved. ReadR
as a modeled ratio whose denominator — including its
zero-token on-hit case — is now live-confirmed, and the
dollar savings as a modeled ceiling awaiting live billing.
Capture is not free.The instrument has an op-
erating cost, which we report rather than hide. The
corpus database is9.5GB, about0 .19GB per active day;
on-device OCR runs on96%of frames, a continuous
duty cycle; and the accessibility tree that grounds replay
is present on81.5%of frames, so18 .5%offer no struc-
tured target and would fall back to coordinates. Replay
coverage is therefore bounded by that81.5%, and the
compression and QA wins of Section 6 are gross of the
capture engine’s own footprint.
Match precision propagates into q.Turning a
captured routine into a replayable script depends on
entity typing, which is approximately82%accurate at
assigning a non-generic type (Section 6). Typing errors
propagate directly into the match-precision termq of
Eq. 1: a mistyped target can match the wrong routine
or fail to match a real one, soq < 1and the honest fleet
saving carries that factor. We do not assumeq= 1.
OCR is a model, so determinism holds forward,
not back to pixels.The only learned component any-
where in the pipeline is the on-device OCR that reads
screen text at capture time. Byte-level reproducibility
(Section 7.5) therefore holds from thestored OCR text
forward: given the captured text, every downstream doc-
ument is a deterministic function of it. It does not hold
back to the pixels, because a different OCR model, or
a re-scan of the same screenshots, could yield different
text. We scope the determinism claim to the compile
path over stored capture, never to perception.
9 Conclusion
Agents are blind to the activity stream that most de-
fines their user’s day, not because capture is missing but
because nothing turns capture into memory an agent
can afford, reproduce, and trust. Activity frames fill
that seam with the least interesting tool available, de-
terministic code, and we argue that this dullness is the
point: at 68ms and zero tokens per day, episodic mem-
ory becomes infrastructure rather than inference, and
the measured/inferred boundary gives interpretation a
place to live without contaminating fact. The same deter-
ministic compiler doubles as a demand-side instrument:
because it reduces recurring capture to a replayable script
by code alone, it reads the cost parametersR and h that
agent-cost models assume, here as first single-user val-
ues, with a modeled numerator, awaiting the multi-user
replication and live billing we reserve. The schema, com-
pilation rules, and implementation are open [10]; we hope
the format outlives the reference code, and that capture
systems, memory layers, and agents converge on a shared,
honest representation of what a person actually did.
References
[1] M. Pink, Q. Wu, V. A. Vo, J. Turek, J. Mu, A. Huth,
and M. Toneva, “Position: Episodic memory is the
missing piece for long-term LLM agents,” 2025.
[2] C. Zhou, H. Chai, W. Chen, Z. Guo, R. Shan,
Y. Song, T. Xu, Y. Yang, A. Yu, W. Zhang,
C. Zheng, J. Zhu, Z. Zheng, Z. Zhang, X. Lou,
C. Zhang, Z. Fu, J. Wang, W. Liu, J. Lin, and
W. Zhang, “Externalization in LLM agents: A uni-
fied review of memory, skills, protocols and harness
engineering,” 2026.
[3] C. Packer, S. Wooders, K. Lin, V. Fang, S. G. Patil,
I. Stoica, and J. E. Gonzalez, “MemGPT: Towards
LLMs as operating systems,” 2024.
[4] P. Chhikara, D. Khant, S. Aryan, T. Singh, and
D. Yadav, “Mem0: Building production-ready AI
agents with scalable long-term memory,” 2025.
[5] P. Rasmussen, P. Paliychuk, T. Beauvais, J. Ryan,
and D. Chalef, “Zep: A temporal knowledge graph
architecture for agent memory,” 2025.
12
[6] E. Bjäreholt and J. Nilsson, “ActivityWatch:
open-source automated time tracker.” https://
activitywatch.net, 2016. Accessed 2026-07-04.
[7] Microsoft, “Recall: retrace your steps on Copilot+
PCs.” https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/
windows/apps/develop/windows-integration/
recall/, 2025. Accessed 2026-07-04.
[8] OpenAI, “Chronicle: memories from re-
cent screen content in Codex for macOS.”
https://developers.openai.com/codex/
memories/chronicle, 2026. Research preview,
accessed 2026-07-04.
[9] N. F. Liu, K. Lin, J. Hewitt, A. Paranjape,
M. Bevilacqua, F. Petroni, and P. Liang, “Lost in
the middle: How language models use long contexts,”
2023.
[10] N. Iyamu, “activity-frames: episodic memory
for AI agents.” https://github.com/nossa-y/
activity-frames, 2026. MIT license, accessed
2026-07-04.
[11] Anthropic, “Model Context Protocol.” https://
modelcontextprotocol.io, 2024. Open protocol
specification, accessed 2026-07-04.
[12] K. Wang, Y. Lin, J. Lou, Z. Zhou, B. Suvonov, and
J. Li, “E-mem: Multi-agent based episodic context
reconstruction for LLM agent memory,” 2026.
[13] S. Forouzandeh, W. Peng, P. Moradi, X. Yu, and
M. Jalili, “Learning hierarchical procedural mem-
ory for LLM agents through bayesian selection and
contrastive refinement,” 2025.
[14] Z. Pan, Q. Wu, H. Jiang, X. Luo, H. Cheng, D. Li,
Y. Yang, C.-Y. Lin, H. V. Zhao, L. Qiu, and J. Gao,
“On memory construction and retrieval for personal-
ized conversational agents,” 2025.
[15] Z. Z. Wang, J. Mao, D. Fried, and G. Neubig, “Agent
workflow memory,” 2024.
[16] Y. Wang and X. Chen, “Mirix: Multi-agent memory
system for llm-based agents,” 2025.
[17] H. Yin, Z. Wen, J. Cao, B. Yuan, and R. Yang, “Fo-
cal: Filtered on-device continuous activity logging
for efficient personal desktop summarization,” 2026.
[18] Y. Tang, H. Tang, T. Cao, L. Nguyen, A. Zhang,
X. Cao, C. Liu, W. Ding, and Y. Li, “Proagentbench:
Evaluating llm agents for proactive assistance with
real-world data,” 2026.
[19] G. Zhang, M. Ahmed, Z. Hu, and A. Bulling, “Sum-
mact: Uncovering user intentions through interac-
tive behaviour summarisation,” 2024.
[20] J. N. Li, Z. J. Zhang, and J. Ma, “Omniquery: Con-
textually augmenting captured multimodal memory
to enable personal question answering,” 2025.
[21] A. N. Dragunov, T. G. Dietterich, K. Johnsrude,
M. McLaughlin, L. Li, and J. L. Herlocker, “Task-
Tracer: A desktop environment to support multi-
tasking knowledge workers,” inProc. IUI, pp. 75–82,
2005.
[22] N. Oliver, G. Smith, C. Thakkar, and A. C. Suren-
dran, “SWISH: Semantic analysis of window titles
and switching history,” inProc. IUI, pp. 92–99, 2006.
[23] V. M. González and G. Mark, ““constant, constant,
multi-taskingcraziness”: Managingmultipleworking
spheres,” inProc. CHI, pp. 113–120, 2004.
[24] L. Yeykelis, J. J. Cummings, and B. Reeves, “Mul-
titasking on a single device: Arousal and the fre-
quency, anticipation, and prediction of switching
between media content on a computer,”Journal of
Communication, vol. 64, no. 1, pp. 167–192, 2014.
[25] A. R. Doherty and A. F. Smeaton, “Automati-
cally segmenting LifeLog data into events,” inProc.
WIAMIS, pp. 20–23, 2008.
[26] A. J. Sellen and S. Whittaker, “Beyond total capture:
A constructive critique of lifelogging,”Communica-
tions of the ACM, vol. 53, no. 5, pp. 70–77, 2010.
[27] R. Cooley, B. Mobasher, and J. Srivastava, “Data
preparation for mining world wide web browsing pat-
terns,”Knowledge and Information Systems, vol. 1,
no. 1, pp. 5–32, 1999.
[28] S. J. van Zelst, F. Mannhardt, M. de Leoni, and
A. Koschmider, “Event abstraction in process min-
ing: Literature review and taxonomy,”Granular
Computing, vol. 6, pp. 719–736, 2021.
[29] V. Leno, A. Polyvyanyy, M. Dumas, M. La Rosa,
and F. M. Maggi, “Robotic process mining: Vision
and challenges,”Business & Information Systems
Engineering, vol. 63, no. 3, pp. 301–314, 2021.
[30] F. Portet, E. Reiter, A. Gatt, J. Hunter, S. Sripada,
Y. Freer, and C. Sykes, “Automatic generation of tex-
tual summaries from neonatal intensive care data,”
Artificial Intelligence, vol. 173, no. 7–8, pp. 789–816,
2009.
[31] C. Zhang, S. He, J. Qian, B. Li, L. Li, S. Qin,
Y. Kang, M. Ma, G. Liu, Q. Lin, S. Rajmohan,
D. Zhang, and Q. Zhang, “Large language model-
brained GUI agents: A survey,” 2025.
[32] G. Liu, P. Zhao, Y. Liang, L. Liu, Y. Guo, H. Xiao,
W. Lin, Y. Chai, Y. Han, S. Ren, H. Wang, X. Liang,
W. Wang, T. Wu, Z. Lu, S. Chen, LiLinghao,
13
H. Wang, G. Xiong, Y. Liu, and H. Li, “LLM-
powered GUI agents in phone automation: Sur-
veying progress and prospects,” 2025.
[33] J. S. Park, J. C. O’Brien, C. J. Cai, M. R. Morris,
P. Liang, and M. S. Bernstein, “Generative agents:
Interactive simulacra of human behavior,” 2023.
[34] Y. Li, H. Wen, W. Wang, X. Li, Y. Yuan, G. Liu,
J. Liu, W. Xu, X. Wang, Y. Sun, R. Kong, Y. Wang,
H. Geng, J. Luan, X. Jin, Z. Ye, G. Xiong, F. Zhang,
X. Li, M. Xu, Z. Li, P. Li, Y. Liu, Y.-Q. Zhang, and
Y. Liu, “Personal LLM agents: Insights and survey
about the capability, efficiency and security,” 2024.
[35] Y. Louck, “Securing LLM-agent long-term memory
against poisoning: Non-malleable, origin-bound au-
thority with machine-checked guarantees,” 2026.
[36] K. Chen, Y. Pang, and T. Wang, “MRMMIA: Mem-
bership inference attacks on memory in chat agents,”
2026.
[37] L. Mei, J. Yao, Y. Ge, Y. Wang, B. Bi, Y. Cai,
J. Liu, M. Li, Z.-Z. Li, D. Zhang, C. Zhou, J. Mao,
T. Xia, J. Guo, and S. Liu, “A survey of context
engineering for large language models,” 2025.
[38] B. Zheng, M. Y. Fatemi, X. Jin,et al., “SkillWeaver:
Web agents can self-improve by discovering and
honing skills,” 2025.
[39] Z. Z. Wang, A. Gandhi, G. Neubig,et al., “Inducing
programmatic skills for agentic tasks,” 2025.
[40] B. Li, “PreAct: Computer-using agents that get
faster on repeated tasks,” 2026.
[41] V. Pahuja, Y. Lu, C. Rosset, B. Gou, A. Mitra,
S. Whitehead, Y. Su, and A. Awadallah, “Explorer:
Scaling exploration-driven web trajectory synthesis
for multimodal web agents,” 2025.
[42] Y. Xu, D. Lu, Z. Shen, J. Wang, Z. Wang, Y. Mao,
C. Xiong, and T. Yu, “AgentTrek: Agent trajec-
tory synthesis via guiding replay with web tutorials,”
2024.
[43] C. H. Song, Y. Song, P. Goyal, Y. Su, O. Riva,
H. Palangi, and T. Pfister, “Watch and learn: Learn-
ing to use computers from online videos,” 2025.
[44] M. Oyamada, K. Takeoka, K. Akimoto, R. Obara,
M. Enomoto, H. Zhang, D. Haraguchi, and
T. Tamura, “cotomi act: Learning to automate work
by watching you,” 2026.
[45] Y. Song, K. Ramaneti, Z. Sheikh,et al., “Agent data
protocol: Unifying datasets for diverse, effective fine-
tuning of LLM agents,” 2025.
[46] L. Chen, M. Zaharia, and J. Zou, “FrugalGPT: How
to use large language models while reducing cost
and improving performance,” 2023.
[47] M. H. Erol, B. El, M. Suzgun, M. Yuksekgonul, and
J. Zou, “Cost-of-pass: An economic framework for
evaluating language models,” 2025.
[48] S. Kapoor, B. Stroebl, Z. S. Siegel, N. Nadgir, and
A. Narayanan, “AI agents that matter,” 2024.
[49] S. Kapoor, B. Stroebl, P. Kirgis, N. Nadgir, Z. S.
Siegel, B. Wei, T. Xue, Z. Chen, F. Chen, S. Ut-
pala, F. Ndzomga, D. Oruganty, S. Luskin, K. Liu,
B. Yu, A. Arora, D. Hahm, H. Trivedi, H. Sun,
J. Lee, T. Jin, Y. Mai, Y. Zhou, Y. Zhu, R. Bom-
masani, D. Kang, D. Song, P. Henderson, Y. Su,
P. Liang, and A. Narayanan, “Holistic agent leader-
board: The missing infrastructure for AI agent eval-
uation,” 2025.
[50] L. Tauscher and S. Greenberg, “How people revisit
web pages: empirical findings and implications for
the design of history systems,”International Journal
of Human-Computer Studies, vol. 47, no. 1, pp. 97–
137, 1997.
[51] E. Adar, J. Teevan, and S. T. Dumais, “Large scale
analysis of web revisitation patterns,” inProceedings
of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in
Computing Systems (CHI), pp. 1197–1206, 2008.
[52] M. Budiu, F. McSherry, L. Ryzhyk, and V. Tannen,
“DBSP: Automatic incremental view maintenance
for rich query languages,” 2022.
14